The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, byMark TwainThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States andmost other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictionswhatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the termsof the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online atwww.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, youwill have to check the laws of the country where you are located beforeusing this eBook.Title: The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn       Tom Sawyer’s ComradeAuthor: Mark TwainRelease Date: May 10, 2010 [eBook #32325][Most recently updated: November 11, 2021]Language: EnglishProduced by: James Adcock. Special thanks to The Internet Archive:American Libraries.Revised by Richard Tonsing.*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ADVENTURES OF HUCKLEBERRY FINN ***[Illustration: Portrait of the AuthorS. L. Clemens]THE ADVENTURESOFHUCKLEBERRY FINN(TOM SAWYER’S COMRADE)   SCENE: The Mississippi Valley   TIME: Forty to Fifty Years Ago   By Mark Twain   ILLUSTRATED   _NEW EDITION FROM NEW PLATES_   HARPER & BROTHERS PUBLISHERS   NEW YORK AND LONDON—————Books by MARK TWAIN   ST. JOAN OF ARC   THE INNOCENTS ABROAD   ROUGHING IT   THE GILDED AGE   A TRAMP ABROAD   FOLLOWING THE EQUATOR   PUDD’NHEAD WILSON   SKETCHES NEW AND OLD   THE AMERICAN CLAIMANT   CHRISTIAN SCIENCE   A CONNECTICUT YANKEE AT THE COURT OF      KING ARTHUR   THE ADVENTURES OF HUCKLEBERRY FINN   PERSONAL RECOLLECTIONS OF JOAN OF ARC   LIFE ON THE MISSISSIPPI   THE MAN THAT CORRUPTED HADLEYBURG   THE PRINCE AND THE PAUPER   THE $30,000 BEQUEST   THE ADVENTURES OF TOM SAWYER   TOM SAWYER ABROAD   WHAT IS MAN?   THE MYSTERIOUS STRANGER   ADAM’S DIARY   A DOG’S TALE   A DOUBLE-BARRELED DETECTIVE STORY   EDITORIAL WILD OATS   EVE’S DIARY   IN DEFENSE OF HARRIET SHELLY AND      OTHER ESSAYS   IS SHAKESPEARE DEAD?   CAPT. STORMFIELD’S VISIT TO HEAVEN   A HORSE’S TALE   THE JUMPING FROG   THE £1,000,000 BANK-NOTE   TRAVELS AT HOME   TRAVELS IN HISTORY   MARK TWAIN’S LETTERS   MARK TWAIN’S SPEECHES   —————   HARPER & BROTHERS, NEW YORK   [Established 1817]   The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn      —————   Copyright, 1884. by Samuel L. Clemens      —————   Copyright. 1896 and 1899. by Harper & Brothers      —————   Copyright. 1912, by Clara Gabrilowitsch      —————   Printed in the United States of AmericaCONTENTS   Notice   Explanatory   I. I Discover Moses and the Bulrushers   II. Our Gang’s Dark Oath   III. We Ambuscade the A-rabs   IV. The Hair-ball Oracle   V. Pap Starts in on a New Life   VI. Pap Struggles with the Death Angel   VII. I Fool Pap and Get Away   VIII. I Spare Miss Watson’s Jim   IX. The House of Death Floats By   X. What Comes of Handlin’ Snake-skin   XI. They’re After Us!   XII. “Better Let Blame Well Alone”   XIII. Honest Loot from the “Walter Scott”   XIV. Was Solomon Wise?   XV. Fooling Poor Old Jim   XVI. The Rattlesnake-skin Does Its Work   XVII. The Grangerfords Take Me In   XVIII. Why Harney Rode Away for His Hat   XIX. The Duke and the Dauphin Come Aboard   XX. What Royalty Did to Parkville   XXI. An Arkansaw Difficulty   XXII. Why the Lynching Bee Failed   XXIII. The Orneriness of Kings   XXIV. The King Turns Parson   XXV. All Full of Tears and Flapdoodle   XXVI. I Steal the King’s Plunder   XXVII. Dead Peter has His Gold   XXVIII. Overreaching Don’t Pay   XXIX. I Light Out in the Storm   XXX. The Gold Saves the Thieves   XXXI. You Can’t Pray a Lie   XXXII. I Have a New Name   XXXIII. The Pitiful Ending of Royalty   XXXIV. We Cheer Up Jim   XXXV. Dark, Deep-laid Plans   XXXVI. Trying to Help Jim   XXXVII. Jim Gets His Witch pie   XXXVIII. “Here a Captive Heart Busted”   XXXIX. Tom Writes Nonnamous Letters   XL. A Mixed-up and Splendid Rescue   XLI. “Must ’a’ Been Sperits”   XLII. Why They Didn’t Hang Jim   Chapter the Last. Nothing More to WriteILLUSTRATIONS—————   Portrait of the Author   Huckleberry Finn   “‘Gimme a Chaw’”   Tom Advises a Witch PieNOTICEPersons attempting to find a motive in this narrative will beprosecuted; persons attempting to find a moral in it will be banished;persons attempting to find a plot in it will be shot.   By Order of the Author,    Per G. G., Chief of Ordnance.EXPLANATORYIn this book a number of dialects are used, to wit: the Missouri negrodialect; the extremest form of the backwoods Southwestern dialect; theordinary “Pike County” dialect; and four modified varieties of thislast. The shadings have not been done in a haphazard fashion, or byguesswork; but painstakingly, and with the trustworthy guidance andsupport of personal familiarity with these several forms of speech.I make this explanation for the reason that without it many readerswould suppose that all these characters were trying to talk alike andnot succeeding.   The Author.HUCKLEBERRY FINNCHAPTER IYou don’t know about me without you have read a book by the name of_The Adventures of Tom Sawyer;_ but that ain’t no matter. That book wasmade by Mr. Mark Twain, and he told the truth, mainly. There was thingswhich he stretched, but mainly he told the truth. That is nothing. Inever seen anybody but lied one time or another, without it was AuntPolly, or the widow, or maybe Mary. Aunt Polly—Tom’s Aunt Polly, sheis—and Mary, and the Widow Douglas is all told about in that book,which is mostly a true book, with some stretchers, as I said before.Now the way that the book winds up is this: Tom and me found themoney that the robbers hid in the cave, and it made us rich. We gotsix thousand dollars apiece—all gold. It was an awful sight of moneywhen it was piled up. Well, Judge Thatcher he took it and put it outat interest, and it fetched us a dollar a day apiece all the yearround—more than a body could tell what to do with. The Widow Douglasshe took me for her son, and allowed she would sivilize me; but it wasrough living in the house all the time, considering how dismal regularand decent the widow was in all her ways; and so when I couldn’t standit no longer I lit out. I got into my old rags and my sugar-hogsheadagain, and was free and satisfied. But Tom Sawyer he hunted me up andsaid he was going to start a band of robbers, and I might join if Iwould go back to the widow and be respectable. So I went back.The widow she cried over me, and called me a poor lost lamb, and shecalled me a lot of other names, too, but she never meant no harm by it.She put me in them new clothes again, and I couldn’t do nothing butsweat and sweat, and feel all cramped up. Well, then, the old thingcommenced again. The widow rung a bell for supper, and you had to cometo time. When you got to the table you couldn’t go right to eating,but you had to wait for the widow to tuck down her head and grumblea little over the victuals, though there warn’t really anything thematter with them—that is, nothing only everything was cooked by itself.In a barrel of odds and ends it is different; things get mixed up, andthe juice kind of swaps around, and the things go better.After supper she got out her book and learned me about Moses and theBulrushers, and I was in a sweat to find out all about him; but by andby she let it out that Moses had been dead a considerable long time; sothen I didn’t care no more about him, because I don’t take no stock indead people.Pretty soon I wanted to smoke, and asked the widow to let me. But shewouldn’t. She said it was a mean practice and wasn’t clean, and I musttry to not do it any more. That is just the way with some people. Theyget down on a thing when they don’t know nothing about it. Here shewas a-bothering about Moses, which was no kin to her, and no use toanybody, being gone, you see, yet finding a power of fault with me fordoing a thing that had some good in it. And she took snuff, too; ofcourse that was all right, because she done it herself.Her sister, Miss Watson, a tolerable slim old maid, with goggleson, had just come to live with her, and took a set at me now with aspelling-book. She worked me middling hard for about an hour, and thenthe widow made her ease up. I couldn’t stood it much longer. Then foran hour it was deadly dull, and I was fidgety. Miss Watson would say,“Don’t put your feet up there, Huckleberry”; and “Don’t scrunch up likethat, Huckleberry—set up straight”; and pretty soon she would say,“Don’t gap and stretch like that, Huckleberry—why don’t you try tobehave?” Then she told me all about the bad place, and I said I wishedI was there. She got mad then, but I didn’t mean no harm. All I wantedwas to go somewheres; all I wanted was a change, I warn’t particular.She said it was wicked to say what I said; said she wouldn’t say it forthe whole world; _she_ was going to live so as to go to the good place.Well, I couldn’t see no advantage in going where she was going, so Imade up my mind I wouldn’t try for it. But I never said so, because itwould only make trouble, and wouldn’t do no good.Now she had got a start, and she went on and told me all about the goodplace. She said all a body would have to do there was to go around allday long with a harp and sing, forever and ever. So I didn’t think muchof it. But I never said so. I asked her if she reckoned Tom Sawyerwould go there, and she said not by a considerable sight. I was gladabout that, because I wanted him and me to be together.Miss Watson she kept pecking at me, and it got tiresome and lonesome.By and by they fetched the niggers in and had prayers, and theneverybody was off to bed. I went up to my room with a piece of candle,and put it on the table. Then I set down in a chair by the window andtried to think of something cheerful, but it warn’t no use. I felt solonesome I most wished I was dead. The stars were shining, and theleaves rustled in the woods ever so mournful; and I heard an owl, awayoff, who-whooing about somebody that was dead, and a whippowill anda dog crying about somebody that was going to die; and the wind wastrying to whisper something to me, and I couldn’t make out what it was,and so it made the cold shivers run over me. Then away out in the woodsI heard that kind of a sound that a ghost makes when it wants to tellabout something that’s on its mind and can’t make itself understood,and so can’t rest easy in its grave, and has to go about that wayevery night grieving. I got so downhearted and scared I did wish I hadsome company. Pretty soon a spider went crawling up my shoulder, and Iflipped it off and it lit in the candle; and before I could budge itwas all shriveled up. I didn’t need anybody to tell me that that wasan awful bad sign and would fetch me some bad luck, so I was scaredand most shook the clothes off of me. I got up and turned around in mytracks three times and crossed my breast every time; and then I tiedup a little lock of my hair with a thread to keep witches away. But Ihadn’t no confidence. You do that when you’ve lost a horseshoe thatyou’ve found, instead of nailing it up over the door, but I hadn’t everheard anybody say it was any way to keep off bad luck when you’d killeda spider.I set down again, a-shaking all over, and got out my pipe for a smoke;for the house was all as still as death now, and so the widow wouldn’tknow. Well, after a long time I heard the clock away off in the towngo boom—boom—boom—twelve licks; and all still again—stiller thanever. Pretty soon I heard a twig snap down in the dark amongst thetrees—something was a-stirring. I set still and listened. Directly Icould just barely hear a “_me-yow! me-yow!_” down there. That was good!Says I, “_me-yow! me-yow!_” as soft as I could, and then I put out thelight and scrambled out of the window on to the shed. Then I slippeddown to the ground and crawled in among the trees, and, sure enough,there was Tom Sawyer waiting for me.CHAPTER IIWe went tiptoeing along a path amongst the trees back toward the endof the widow’s garden, stooping down so as the branches wouldn’tscrape our heads. When we was passing by the kitchen I fell over aroot and made a noise. We scrouched down and laid still. Miss Watson’sbig nigger, named Jim, was setting in the kitchen door; we could seehim pretty clear, because there was a light behind him. He got up andstretched his neck out about a minute, listening. Then he says:“Who dah?”He listened some more; then he came tiptoeing down and stood rightbetween us; we could ’a’ touched him, nearly. Well, likely it wasminutes and minutes that there warn’t a sound, and we all there soclose together. There was a place on my ankle that got to itching, butI dasn’t scratch it; and then my ear begun to itch; and next my back,right between my shoulders. Seemed like I’d die if I couldn’t scratch.Well, I’ve noticed that thing plenty times since. If you are with thequality, or at a funeral, or trying to go to sleep when you ain’tsleepy—if you are anywheres where it won’t do for you to scratch, whyyou will itch all over in upward of a thousand places. Pretty soon Jimsays:“Say, who is you? Whar is you? Dog my cats ef I didn’ hear sumf’n.Well, I know what I’s gwyne to do: I’s gwyne to set down here andlisten tell I hears it ag’in.”So he set down on the ground betwixt me and Tom. He leaned his backup against a tree, and stretched his legs out till one of them mosttouched one of mine. My nose begun to itch. It itched till the tearscome into my eyes. But I dasn’t scratch. Then it begun to itch onthe inside. Next I got to itching underneath. I didn’t know how Iwas going to set still. This miserableness went on as much as six orseven minutes; but it seemed a sight longer than that. I was itchingin eleven different places now. I reckoned I couldn’t stand it more’na minute longer, but I set my teeth hard and got ready to try. Justthen Jim begun to breathe heavy; next he begun to snore—and then I waspretty soon comfortable again.Tom he made a sign to me—kind of a little noise with his mouth—and wewent creeping away on our hands and knees. When we was ten foot offTom whispered to me, and wanted to tie Jim to the tree for fun. But Isaid no; he might wake and make a disturbance, and then they’d find outI warn’t in. Then Tom said he hadn’t got candles enough, and he wouldslip in the kitchen and get some more. I didn’t want him to try. I saidJim might wake up and come. But Tom wanted to resk it; so we slid inthere and got three candles, and Tom laid five cents on the table forpay. Then we got out, and I was in a sweat to get away; but nothingwould do Tom but he must crawl to where Jim was, on his hands andknees, and play something on him. I waited, and it seemed a good while,everything was so still and lonesome.As soon as Tom was back we cut along the path, around the garden fence,and by and by fetched up on the steep top of the hill the other sideof the house. Tom said he slipped Jim’s hat off of his head and hungit on a limb right over him, and Jim stirred a little, but he didn’twake. Afterward Jim said the witches bewitched him and put him in atrance, and rode him all over the state, and then set him under thetrees again, and hung his hat on a limb to show who done it. And nexttime Jim told it he said they rode him down to New Orleans; and, afterthat, every time he told it he spread it more and more, till by and byhe said they rode him all over the world, and tired him most to death,and his back was all over saddle-boils. Jim was monstrous proud aboutit, and he got so he wouldn’t hardly notice the other niggers. Niggerswould come miles to hear Jim tell about it, and he was more looked upto than any nigger in that country. Strange niggers would stand withtheir mouths open and look him all over, same as if he was a wonder.Niggers is always talking about witches in the dark by the kitchenfire; but whenever one was talking and letting on to know all aboutsuch things, Jim would happen in and say, “Hm! What you know ’boutwitches?” and that nigger was corked up and had to take a back seat.Jim always kept that five-center piece round his neck with a string,and said it was a charm the devil give to him with his own hands, andtold him he could cure anybody with it and fetch witches whenever hewanted to just by saying something to it; but he never told what it washe said to it. Niggers would come from all around there and give Jimanything they had, just for a sight of that five-center piece; but theywouldn’t touch it, because the devil had had his hands on it. Jim wasmost ruined for a servant, because he got stuck up on account of havingseen the devil and been rode by witches.Well, when Tom and me got to the edge of the hilltop we looked awaydown into the village and could see three or four lights twinkling,where there was sick folks, maybe; and the stars over us was sparklingever so fine; and down by the village was the river, a whole milebroad, and awful still and grand. We went down the hill and found JoeHarper and Ben Rogers, and two or three more of the boys, hid in theold tanyard. So we unhitched a skiff and pulled down the river two mileand a half, to the big scar on the hillside, and went ashore.We went to a clump of bushes, and Tom made everybody swear to keep thesecret, and then showed them a hole in the hill, right in the thickestpart of the bushes. Then we lit the candles, and crawled in on ourhands and knees. We went about two hundred yards, and then the caveopened up. Tom poked about amongst the passages, and pretty soon duckedunder a wall where you wouldn’t ’a’ noticed that there was a hole. Wewent along a narrow place and got into a kind of room, all damp andsweaty and cold, and there we stopped. Tom says:“Now, we’ll start this band of robbers and call it Tom Sawyer’s Gang.Everybody that wants to join has got to take an oath, and write hisname in blood.”Everybody was willing. So Tom got out a sheet of paper that he hadwrote the oath on, and read it. It swore every boy to stick to theband, and never tell any of the secrets; and if anybody done anythingto any boy in the band, whichever boy was ordered to kill that personand his family must do it, and he mustn’t eat and he mustn’t sleeptill he had killed them and hacked a cross in their breasts, which wasthe sign of the band. And nobody that didn’t belong to the band coulduse that mark, and if he did he must be sued; and if he done it againhe must be killed. And if anybody that belonged to the band told thesecrets, he must have his throat cut, and then have his carcass burntup and the ashes scattered all around, and his name blotted off thelist with blood and never mentioned again by the gang, but have a curseput on it and be forgot forever.Everybody said it was a real beautiful oath, and asked Tom if he gotit out of his own head. He said some of it, but the rest was out ofpirate-books and robber-books, and every gang that was high-toned hadit.Some thought it would be good to kill the _families_ of boys that toldthe secrets. Tom said it was a good idea, so he took a pencil and wroteit in. Then Ben Rogers says:“Here’s Huck Finn, he hain’t got no family; what you going to do ’bouthim?”“Well, hain’t he got a father?” says Tom Sawyer.“Yes, he’s got a father, but you can’t never find him these days. Heused to lay drunk with the hogs in the tanyard, but he hain’t been seenin these parts for a year or more.”They talked it over, and they was going to rule me out, because theysaid every boy must have a family or somebody to kill, or else itwouldn’t be fair and square for the others. Well, nobody could think ofanything to do—everybody was stumped, and set still. I was most readyto cry; but all at once I thought of a way, and so I offered them MissWatson—they could kill her. Everybody said:“Oh, she’ll do. That’s all right. Huck can come in.”Then they all stuck a pin in their fingers to get blood to sign with,and I made my mark on the paper.“Now,” says Ben Rogers, “what’s the line of business of this Gang?”“Nothing only robbery and murder,” Tom said.“But who are we going to rob?—houses, or cattle, or—”“Stuff! stealing cattle and such things ain’t robbery; it’s burglary,”says Tom Sawyer. “We ain’t burglars. That ain’t no sort of style. Weare highwaymen. We stop stages and carriages on the road, with maskson, and kill the people and take their watches and money.”“Must we always kill the people?”“Oh, certainly. It’s best. Some authorities think different, but mostlyit’s considered best to kill them—except some that you bring to thecave here, and keep them till they’re ransomed.”“Ransomed? What’s that?”“I don’t know. But that’s what they do. I’ve seen it in books; and soof course that’s what we’ve got to do.”“But how can we do it if we don’t know what it is?”“Why, blame it all, we’ve _got_ to do it. Don’t I tell you it’s in thebooks? Do you want to go to doing different from what’s in the books,and get things all muddled up?”“Oh, that’s all very fine to _say_, Tom Sawyer, but how in the nationare these fellows going to be ransomed if we don’t know how to do it tothem?—that’s the thing _I_ want to get at. Now, what do you _reckon_ itis?”“Well, I don’t know. But per’aps if we keep them till they’re ransomed,it means that we keep them till they’re dead.”“Now, that’s something _like._ That’ll answer. Why couldn’t you saidthat before? We’ll keep them till they’re ransomed to death; and abothersome lot they’ll be, too—eating up everything, and always tryingto get loose.”“How you talk, Ben Rogers. How can they get loose when there’s a guardover them, ready to shoot them down if they move a peg?”“A guard! Well, that _is_ good. So somebody’s got to set up all nightand never get any sleep, just so as to watch them. I think that’sfoolishness. Why can’t a body take a club and ransom them as soon asthey get here?”“Because it ain’t in the books so—that’s why. Now, Ben Rogers, do youwant to do things regular, or don’t you?—that’s the idea. Don’t youreckon that the people that made the books knows what’s the correctthing to do? Do you reckon _you_ can learn ’em anything? Not by a gooddeal. No, sir, we’ll just go on and ransom them in the regular way.”“All right. I don’t mind; but I say it’s a fool way, anyhow. Say, do wekill the women, too?”“Well, Ben Rogers, if I was as ignorant as you I wouldn’t let on. Killthe women? No; nobody ever saw anything in the books like that. Youfetch them to the cave, and you’re always as polite as pie to them; andby and by they fall in love with you, and never want to go home anymore.”“Well, if that’s the way I’m agreed, but I don’t take no stock in it.Mighty soon we’ll have the cave so cluttered up with women, and fellowswaiting to be ransomed, that there won’t be no place for the robbers.But go ahead, I ain’t got nothing to say.”Little Tommy Barnes was asleep now, and when they waked him up he wasscared, and cried, and said he wanted to go home to his ma, and didn’twant to be a robber any more.So they all made fun of him, and called him cry-baby, and that made himmad, and he said he would go straight and tell all the secrets. But Tomgive him five cents to keep quiet, and said we would all go home andmeet next week, and rob somebody and kill some people.Ben Rogers said he couldn’t get out much, only Sundays, and so hewanted to begin next Sunday; but all the boys said it would be wickedto do it on Sunday, and that settled the thing. They agreed to gettogether and fix a day as soon as they could, and then we elected TomSawyer first captain and Joe Harper second captain of the Gang, and sostarted home.I clumb up the shed and crept into my window just before day wasbreaking. My new clothes was all greased up and clayey, and I wasdog-tired.CHAPTER IIIWell, I got a good going-over in the morning from old Miss Watson onaccount of my clothes; but the widow she didn’t scold, but only cleanedoff the grease and clay, and looked so sorry that I thought I wouldbehave awhile if I could. Then Miss Watson she took me in the closetand prayed, but nothing come of it. She told me to pray every day,and whatever I asked for I would get it. But it warn’t so. I triedit. Once I got a fish-line, but no hooks. It warn’t any good to mewithout hooks. I tried for the hooks three or four times, but somehowI couldn’t make it work. By and by, one day, I asked Miss Watson totry for me, but she said I was a fool. She never told me why, and Icouldn’t make it out no way.I set down one time back in the woods, and had a long think about it.I says to myself, if a body can get anything they pray for, why don’tDeacon Winn get back the money he lost on pork? Why can’t the widow getback her silver snuff-box that was stole? Why can’t Miss Watson fat up?No, says I to myself, there ain’t nothing in it. I went and told thewidow about it, and she said the thing a body could get by praying forit was “spiritual gifts.” This was too many for me, but she told mewhat she meant—I must help other people, and do everything I could forother people, and look out for them all the time, and never think aboutmyself. This was including Miss Watson, as I took it. I went out in thewoods and turned it over in my mind a long time, but I couldn’t see noadvantage about it—except for the other people; so at last I reckonedI wouldn’t worry about it any more, but just let it go. Sometimes thewidow would take me one side and talk about Providence in a way to makea body’s mouth water; but maybe next day Miss Watson would take holdand knock it all down again. I judged I could see that there was twoProvidences, and a poor chap would stand considerable show with thewidow’s Providence, but if Miss Watson’s got him there warn’t no helpfor him any more. I thought it all out, and reckoned I would belongto the widow’s if he wanted me, though I couldn’t make out how he wasa-going to be any better off then than what he was before, seeing I wasso ignorant, and so kind of low-down and ornery.Pap he hadn’t been seen for more than a year, and that was comfortablefor me; I didn’t want to see him no more. He used to always whale mewhen he was sober and could get his hands on me; though I used to taketo the woods most of the time when he was around. Well, about this timehe was found in the river drownded, about twelve mile above town, sopeople said. They judged it was him, anyway; said this drownded manwas just his size, and was ragged, and had uncommon long hair, whichwas all like pap; but they couldn’t make nothing out of the face,because it had been in the water so long it warn’t much like a face atall. They said he was floating on his back in the water. They took himand buried him on the bank. But I warn’t comfortable long, because Ihappened to think of something. I knowed mighty well that a drowndedman don’t float on his back, but on his face. So I knowed, then, thatthis warn’t pap, but a woman dressed up in a man’s clothes. So I wasuncomfortable again. I judged the old man would turn up again by andby, though I wished he wouldn’t.We played robber now and then about a month, and then I resigned. Allthe boys did. We hadn’t robbed nobody, hadn’t killed any people, butonly just pretended. We used to hop out of the woods and go chargingdown on hog-drivers and women in carts taking garden stuff to market,but we never hived any of them. Tom Sawyer called the hogs “ingots,”and he called the turnips and stuff “julery,” and we would go to thecave and powwow over what we had done, and how many people we hadkilled and marked. But I couldn’t see no profit in it. One time Tomsent a boy to run about town with a blazing stick, which he called aslogan (which was the sign for the Gang to get together), and thenhe said he had got secret news by his spies that next day a wholeparcel of Spanish merchants and rich A-rabs was going to camp in CaveHollow with two hundred elephants, and six hundred camels, and overa thousand “sumter” mules, all loaded down with di’monds, and theydidn’t have only a guard of four hundred soldiers, and so we would layin ambuscade, as he called it, and kill the lot and scoop the things.He said we must slick up our swords and guns, and get ready. He nevercould go after even a turnip-cart but he must have the swords and gunsall scoured up for it, though they was only lath and broomsticks, andyou might scour at them till you rotted, and then they warn’t worth amouthful of ashes more than what they was before. I didn’t believe wecould lick such a crowd of Spaniards and A-rabs, but I wanted to seethe camels and elephants, so I was on hand next day, Saturday, in theambuscade; and when we got the word we rushed out of the woods and downthe hill. But there warn’t no Spaniards and A-rabs, and there warn’tno camels nor no elephants. It warn’t anything but a Sunday-schoolpicnic, and only a primer class at that. We busted it up, and chasedthe children up the hollow; but we never got anything but somedoughnuts and jam, though Ben Rogers got a rag doll, and Joe Harpergot a hymn-book and a tract; and then the teacher charged in, and madeus drop everything and cut. I didn’t see no di’monds, and I told TomSawyer so. He said there was loads of them there, anyway; and he saidthere was A-rabs there, too, and elephants and things. I said, whycouldn’t we see them, then? He said if I warn’t so ignorant, but hadread a book called _Don Quixote_, I would know without asking. He saidit was all done by enchantment. He said there was hundreds of soldiersthere, and elephants and treasure, and so on, but we had enemies whichhe called magicians, and they had turned the whole thing into an infantSunday-school, just out of spite. I said, all right; then the thing forus to do was to go for the magicians. Tom Sawyer said I was a numskull.“Why,” said he, “a magician could call up a lot of genies, and theywould hash you up like nothing before you could say Jack Robinson. Theyare as tall as a tree and as big around as a church.”“Well,” I says, “s’pose we got some genies to help _us_—can’t we lickthe other crowd then?”“How you going to get them?”“I don’t know. How do _they_ get them?”“Why, they rub an old tin lamp or an iron ring, and then the geniescome tearing in, with the thunder and lightning a-ripping around andthe smoke a-rolling, and everything they’re told to do they up and doit. They don’t think nothing of pulling a shot-tower up by the roots,and belting a Sunday-school superintendent over the head with it—or anyother man.”“Who makes them tear around so?”“Why, whoever rubs the lamp or the ring. They belong to whoever rubsthe lamp or the ring, and they’ve got to do whatever he says. If hetells them to build a palace forty miles long out of di’monds, and fillit full of chewing-gum, or whatever you want, and fetch an emperor’sdaughter from China for you to marry, they’ve got to do it—and they’vegot to do it before sun-up next morning, too. And more: they’ve got towaltz that palace around over the country wherever you want it, youunderstand.”“Well,” says I, “I think they are a pack of flatheads for not keepingthe palace themselves ’stead of fooling them away like that. And what’smore—if I was one of them I would see a man in Jericho before I woulddrop my business and come to him for the rubbing of an old tin lamp.”“How you talk, Huck Finn. Why, you’d _have_ to come when he rubbed it,whether you wanted to or not.”“What! and I as high as a tree and as big as a church? All right, then;I _would_ come; but I lay I’d make that man climb the highest treethere was in the country.”“Shucks, it ain’t no use to talk to you, Huck Finn. You don’t seem toknow anything, somehow—perfect saphead.”I thought all this over for two or three days, and then I reckoned Iwould see if there was anything in it. I got an old tin lamp and aniron ring, and went out in the woods and rubbed and rubbed till I sweatlike an Injun, calculating to build a palace and sell it; but it warn’tno use, none of the genies come. So then I judged that all that stuffwas only just one of Tom Sawyer’s lies. I reckoned he believed in theA-rabs and the elephants, but as for me I think different. It had allthe marks of a Sunday-school.CHAPTER IVWell, three or four months run along, and it was well into the winternow. I had been to school most all the time and could spell and readand write just a little, and could say the multiplication table up tosix times seven is thirty-five, and I don’t reckon I could ever get anyfurther than that if I was to live forever. I don’t take no stock inmathematics, anyway.At first I hated the school, but by and by I got so I could standit. Whenever I got uncommon tired I played hookey, and the hiding Igot next day done me good and cheered me up. So the longer I went toschool the easier it got to be. I was getting sort of used to thewidow’s ways, too, and they warn’t so raspy on me. Living in a houseand sleeping in a bed pulled on me pretty tight mostly, but before thecold weather I used to slide out and sleep in the woods sometimes, andso that was a rest to me. I liked the old ways best, but I was gettingso I liked the new ones, too, a little bit. The widow said I was comingalong slow but sure, and doing very satisfactory. She said she warn’tashamed of me.One morning I happened to turn over the salt-cellar at breakfast.I reached for some of it as quick as I could to throw over my leftshoulder and keep off the bad luck, but Miss Watson was in ahead ofme, and crossed me off. She says, “Take your hands away, Huckleberry;what a mess you are always making!” The widow put in a good word forme, but that warn’t going to keep off the bad luck, I knowed that wellenough. I started out, after breakfast, feeling worried and shaky, andwondering where it was going to fall on me, and what it was going tobe. There is ways to keep off some kinds of bad luck, but this wasn’tone of them kind; so I never tried to do anything, but just poked alonglow-spirited and on the watch-out.I went down to the front garden and clumb over the stile where you gothrough the high board fence. There was an inch of new snow on theground, and I seen somebody’s tracks. They had come up from the quarryand stood around the stile awhile, and then went on around the gardenfence. It was funny they hadn’t come in, after standing around so. Icouldn’t make it out. It was very curious, somehow. I was going tofollow around, but I stooped down to look at the tracks first. I didn’tnotice anything at first, but next I did. There was a cross in the leftboot-heel made with big nails, to keep off the devil.I was up in a second and shinning down the hill. I looked over myshoulder every now and then, but I didn’t see nobody. I was at JudgeThatcher’s as quick as I could get there. He said:“Why, my boy, you are all out of breath. Did you come for yourinterest?”“No, sir,” I says; “is there some for me?”“Oh, yes, a half-yearly is in last night—over a hundred and fiftydollars. Quite a fortune for you. You had better let me invest it alongwith your six thousand, because if you take it you’ll spend it.”“No, sir,” I says, “I don’t want to spend it. I don’t want it atall—nor the six thousand, nuther. I want you to take it; I want to giveit to you—the six thousand and all.”He looked surprised. He couldn’t seem to make it out. He says:“Why, what can you mean, my boy?”I says, “Don’t you ask me no questions about it, please. You’ll takeit—won’t you?”He says:“Well, I’m puzzled. Is something the matter?”“Please take it,” says I, “and don’t ask me nothing—then I won’t haveto tell no lies.”He studied awhile, and then he says:“Oho-o! I think I see. You want to _sell_ all your property to me—notgive it. That’s the correct idea.”Then he wrote something on a paper and read it over, and says:“There; you see it says ‘for a consideration.’ That means I have boughtit of you and paid you for it. Here’s a dollar for you. Now you signit.”So I signed it, and left.Miss Watson’s nigger, Jim, had a hair-ball as big as your fist, whichhad been took out of the fourth stomach of an ox, and he used to domagic with it. He said there was a spirit inside of it, and it knowedeverything. So I went to him that night and told him pap was hereagain, for I found his tracks in the snow. What I wanted to knowwas, what he was going to do, and was he going to stay? Jim got outhis hair-ball and said something over it, and then he held it up anddropped it on the floor. It fell pretty solid, and only rolled aboutan inch. Jim tried it again, and then another time, and it acted justthe same. Jim got down on his knees, and put his ear against it andlistened. But it warn’t no use; he said it wouldn’t talk. He saidsometimes it wouldn’t talk without money. I told him I had an oldslick counterfeit quarter that warn’t no good because the brass showedthrough the silver a little, and it wouldn’t pass nohow, even if thebrass didn’t show, because it was so slick it felt greasy, and so thatwould tell on it every time. (I reckoned I wouldn’t say nothing aboutthe dollar I got from the judge.) I said it was pretty bad money, butmaybe the hair-ball would take it, because maybe it wouldn’t know thedifference. Jim smelt it and bit it and rubbed it, and said he wouldmanage so the hair-ball would think it was good. He said he would splitopen a raw Irish potato and stick the quarter in between and keep itthere all night, and next morning you couldn’t see no brass, and itwouldn’t feel greasy no more, and so anybody in town would take it ina minute, let alone a hair-ball. Well, I knowed a potato would do thatbefore, but I had forgot it.Jim put the quarter under the hair-ball, and got down and listenedagain. This time he said the hair-ball was all right. He said itwould tell my whole fortune if I wanted it to. I says, go on. So thehair-ball talked to Jim, and Jim told it to me. He says:“Yo’ ole father doan’ know yit what he’s a-gwyne to do. Sometimes hespec he’ll go ’way, en den ag’in he spec he’ll stay. De bes’ way is tores’ easy en let de ole man take his own way. Dey’s two angels hoverin’roun’ ’bout him. One uv ’em is white en shiny, en t’other one is black.De white one gits him to go right a little while, den de black one sailin en bust it all up. A body can’t tell yit which one gwyne to fetchhim at de las’. But you is all right. You gwyne to have considabletrouble in yo’ life, en considable joy. Sometimes you gwyne to githurt, en sometimes you gwyne to git sick; but every time you’s gwyneto git well ag’in. Dey’s two gals flyin’ ’bout you in yo’ life. Oneuv ’em’s light en t’other one is dark. One is rich en t’other is po’.You’s gwyne to marry de po’ one fust en de rich one by en by. You wantsto keep ’way fum de water as much as you kin, en don’t run no resk,’kase it’s down in de bills dat you’s gwyne to git hung.”When I lit my candle and went up to my room that night there satpap—his own self!CHAPTER VI had shut the door to. Then I turned around, and there he was. I usedto be scared of him all the time, he tanned me so much. I reckoned Iwas scared now, too; but in a minute I see I was mistaken—that is,after the first jolt, as you may say, when my breath sort of hitched,he being so unexpected; but right away after I see I warn’t scared ofhim worth bothring about.He was most fifty, and he looked it. His hair was long and tangledand greasy, and hung down, and you could see his eyes shining throughlike he was behind vines. It was all black, no gray; so was his long,mixed-up whiskers. There warn’t no color in his face, where his faceshowed; it was white; not like another man’s white, but a white to makea body sick, a white to make a body’s flesh crawl—a tree-toad white, afish-belly white. As for his clothes—just rags, that was all. He hadone ankle resting on t’other knee; the boot on that foot was busted,and two of his toes stuck through, and he worked them now and then. Hishat was laying on the floor—an old black slouch with the top caved in,like a lid.I stood a-looking at him; he set there a-looking at me, with his chairtilted back a little. I set the candle down. I noticed the window wasup; so he had clumb in by the shed. He kept a-looking me all over. Byand by he says:“Starchy clothes—very. You think you’re a good deal of a big-bug,_don’t_ you?”“Maybe I am, maybe I ain’t,” I says.“Don’t you give me none o’ your lip,” says he. “You’ve put onconsiderable many frills since I been away. I’ll take you down a pegbefore I get done with you. You’re educated, too, they say—can read andwrite. You think you’re better’n your father, now, don’t you, becausehe can’t? _I’ll_ take it out of you. Who told you you might meddle withsuch hifalut’n foolishness, hey?—who told you you could?”“The widow. She told me.”“The widow, hey?—and who told the widow she could put in her shovelabout a thing that ain’t none of her business?”“Nobody never told her.”“Well, I’ll learn her how to meddle. And looky here—you drop thatschool, you hear? I’ll learn people to bring up a boy to put on airsover his own father and let on to be better’n what _he_ is. You lemmecatch you fooling around that school again, you hear? Your mothercouldn’t read, and she couldn’t write, nuther, before she died. Noneof the family couldn’t before _they_ died. _I_ can’t; and here you’rea-swelling yourself up like this. I ain’t the man to stand it—you hear?Say, lemme hear you read.”I took up a book and begun something about General Washington and thewars. When I’d read about a half a minute, he fetched the book a whackwith his hand and knocked it across the house. He says:“It’s so. You can do it. I had my doubts when you told me. Now lookyhere; you stop that putting on frills. I won’t have it. I’ll lay foryou, my smarty; and if I catch you about that school I’ll tan you good.First you know you’ll get religion, too. I never see such a son.”He took up a little blue and yaller picture of some cows and a boy, andsays:“What’s this?”“It’s something they give me for learning my lessons good.”He tore it up, and says:“I’ll give you something better—I’ll give you a cowhide.”He set there a-mumbling and a-growling a minute, and then he says:“_Ain’t_ you a sweet-scented dandy, though? A bed; and bedclothes; anda look’n’-glass; and a piece of carpet on the floor—and your own fathergot to sleep with the hogs in the tanyard. I never see such a son. Ibet I’ll take some o’ these frills out o’ you before I’m done with you.Why, there ain’t no end to your airs—they say you’re rich. Hey?—how’sthat?”“They lie—that’s how.”“Looky here—mind how you talk to me; I’m a-standing about all I canstand now—so don’t gimme no sass. I’ve been in town two days, andI hain’t heard nothing but about you bein’ rich. I heard about itaway down the river, too. That’s why I come. You git me that moneyto-morrow—I want it.”“I hain’t got no money.”“It’s a lie. Judge Thatcher’s got it. You git it. I want it.”“I hain’t got no money, I tell you. You ask Judge Thatcher; he’ll tellyou the same.”“All right. I’ll ask him; and I’ll make him pungle, too, or I’ll knowthe reason why. Say, how much you got in your pocket? I want it.”“I hain’t got only a dollar, and I want that to—”“It don’t make no difference what you want it for—you just shell itout.”He took it and bit it to see if it was good, and then he said he wasgoing down-town to get some whisky; said he hadn’t had a drink all day.When he had got out on the shed he put his head in again, and cussedme for putting on frills and trying to be better than him; and when Ireckoned he was gone he come back and put his head in again, and toldme to mind about that school, because he was going to lay for me andlick me if I didn’t drop that.Next day he was drunk, and he went to Judge Thatcher’s and bullyraggedhim, and tried to make him give up the money; but he couldn’t, and thenhe swore he’d make the law force him.The judge and the widow went to law to get the court to take me awayfrom him and let one of them be my guardian; but it was a new judgethat had just come, and he didn’t know the old man; so he said courtsmustn’t interfere and separate families if they could help it; saidhe’d druther not take a child away from its father. So Judge Thatcherand the widow had to quit on the business.That pleased the old man till he couldn’t rest. He said he’d cowhideme till I was black and blue if I didn’t raise some money for him.I borrowed three dollars from Judge Thatcher, and pap took it andgot drunk, and went a-blowing around and cussing and whooping andcarrying on; and he kept it up all over town, with a tin pan, till mostmidnight; then they jailed him, and next day they had him before court,and jailed him again for a week. But he said _he_ was satisfied; saidhe was boss of his son, and he’d make it warm for _him._When he got out the new judge said he was a-going to make a man of him.So he took him to his own house, and dressed him up clean and nice,and had him to breakfast and dinner and supper with the family, andwas just old pie to him, so to speak. And after supper he talked tohim about temperance and such things till the old man cried, and saidhe’d been a fool, and fooled away his life; but now he was a-going toturn over a new leaf and be a man nobody wouldn’t be ashamed of, and hehoped the judge would help him and not look down on him. The judge saidhe could hug him for them words; so he cried, and his wife she criedagain; pap said he’d been a man that had always been misunderstoodbefore, and the judge said he believed it. The old man said that what aman wanted that was down was sympathy, and the judge said it was so; sothey cried again. And when it was bedtime the old man rose up and heldout his hand, and says:“Look at it, gentlemen and ladies all; take a-hold of it; shake it.There’s a hand that was the hand of a hog; but it ain’t so no more;it’s the hand of a man that’s started in on a new life, and’ll diebefore he’ll go back. You mark them words—don’t forget I said them.It’s a clean hand now; shake it—don’t be afeard.”So they shook it, one after the other, all around, and cried. Thejudge’s wife she kissed it. Then the old man he signed a pledge—madehis mark. The judge said it was the holiest time on record, orsomething like that. Then they tucked the old man into a beautifulroom, which was the spare room, and in the night some time he gotpowerful thirsty and clumb out on to the porch-roof and slid down astanchion and traded his new coat for a jug of forty-rod, and clumbback again and had a good old time; and toward daylight he crawled outagain, drunk as a fiddler, and rolled off the porch and broke his leftarm in two places, and was most froze to death when somebody found himafter sun-up. And when they come to look at that spare room they had totake soundings before they could navigate it.The judge he felt kind of sore. He said he reckoned a body could reformthe old man with a shotgun, maybe, but he didn’t know no other way.CHAPTER VIWell, pretty soon the old man was up and around again, and then hewent for Judge Thatcher in the courts to make him give up that money,and he went for me, too, for not stopping school. He catched me acouple of times and thrashed me, but I went to school just the same,and dodged him or outrun him most of the time. I didn’t want to go toschool much before, but I reckoned I’d go now to spite pap. That lawtrial was a slow business—appeared like they warn’t ever going to getstarted on it; so every now and then I’d borrow two or three dollarsoff of the judge for him, to keep from getting a cowhiding. Every timehe got money he got drunk; and every time he got drunk he raised Cainaround town; and every time he raised Cain he got jailed. He was justsuited—this kind of thing was right in his line.He got to hanging around the widow’s too much, and so she told him atlast that if he didn’t quit using around there she would make troublefor him. Well, _wasn’t_ he mad? He said he would show who was HuckFinn’s boss. So he watched out for me one day in the spring, andcatched me, and took me up the river about three mile in a skiff, andcrossed over to the Illinois shore where it was woody and there warn’tno houses but an old log hut in a place where the timber was so thickyou couldn’t find it if you didn’t know where it was.He kept me with him all the time, and I never got a chance to run off.We lived in that old cabin, and he always locked the door and put thekey under his head nights. He had a gun which he had stole, I reckon,and we fished and hunted, and that was what we lived on. Every littlewhile he locked me in and went down to the store, three miles, to theferry, and traded fish and game for whisky, and fetched it home and gotdrunk and had a good time, and licked me. The widow she found out whereI was by and by, and she sent a man over to try to get hold of me; butpap drove him off with the gun, and it warn’t long after that till Iwas used to being where I was, and liked it—all but the cowhide part.It was kind of lazy and jolly, laying off comfortable all day, smokingand fishing, and no books nor study. Two months or more run along,and my clothes got to be all rags and dirt, and I didn’t see how I’dever got to like it so well at the widow’s, where you had to wash, andeat on a plate, and comb up, and go to bed and get up regular, and beforever bothering over a book, and have old Miss Watson pecking at youall the time. I didn’t want to go back no more. I had stopped cussing,because the widow didn’t like it; but now I took to it again becausepap hadn’t no objections. It was pretty good times up in the woodsthere, take it all around.But by and by pap got too handy with his hick’ry, and I couldn’t standit. I was all over welts. He got to going away so much, too, andlocking me in. Once he locked me in and was gone three days. It wasdreadful lonesome. I judged he had got drownded, and I wasn’t evergoing to get out any more. I was scared. I made up my mind I wouldfix up some way to leave there. I had tried to get out of that cabinmany a time, but I couldn’t find no way. There warn’t a window to itbig enough for a dog to get through. I couldn’t get up the chimbly; itwas too narrow. The door was thick, solid oak slabs. Pap was prettycareful not to leave a knife or anything in the cabin when he was away;I reckon I had hunted the place over as much as a hundred times; well,I was most all the time at it, because it was about the only way to putin the time. But this time I found something at last; I found an oldrusty wood-saw without any handle; it was laid in between a rafter andthe clapboards of the roof. I greased it up and went to work. Therewas an old horse-blanket nailed against the logs at the far end ofthe cabin behind the table, to keep the wind from blowing through thechinks and putting the candle out. I got under the table and raisedthe blanket, and went to work to saw a section of the big bottom logout—big enough to let me through. Well, it was a good long job, but Iwas getting toward the end of it when I heard pap’s gun in the woods.I got rid of the signs of my work, and dropped the blanket and hid mysaw, and pretty soon pap come in.Pap warn’t in a good humor—so he was his natural self. He said he wasdown-town, and everything was going wrong. His lawyer said he reckonedhe would win his lawsuit and get the money if they ever got startedon the trial; but then there was ways to put it off a long time, andJudge Thatcher knowed how to do it. And he said people allowed there’dbe another trial to get me away from him and give me to the widow formy guardian, and they guessed it would win this time. This shook me upconsiderable, because I didn’t want to go back to the widow’s any moreand be so cramped up and sivilized, as they called it. Then the oldman got to cussing, and cussed everything and everybody he could thinkof, and then cussed them all over again to make sure he hadn’t skippedany, and after that he polished off with a kind of a general cuss allround, including a considerable parcel of people which he didn’t knowthe names of, and so called them what’s-his-name when he got to them,and went right along with his cussing.He said he would like to see the widow get me. He said he would watchout, and if they tried to come any such game on him he knowed of aplace six or seven mile off to stow me in, where they might hunt tillthey dropped and they couldn’t find me. That made me pretty uneasyagain, but only for a minute; I reckoned I wouldn’t stay on hand tillhe got that chance.The old man made me go to the skiff and fetch the things he had got.There was a fifty-pound sack of corn meal, and a side of bacon,ammunition, and a four-gallon jug of whisky, and an old book and twonewspapers for wadding, besides some tow. I toted up a load, and wentback and set down on the bow of the skiff to rest. I thought it allover, and I reckoned I would walk off with the gun and some lines, andtake to the woods when I run away. I guessed I wouldn’t stay in oneplace, but just tramp right across the country, mostly night-times, andhunt and fish to keep alive, and so get so far away that the old mannor the widow couldn’t ever find me any more. I judged I would saw outand leave that night if pap got drunk enough, and I reckoned he would.I got so full of it I didn’t notice how long I was staying till the oldman hollered and asked me whether I was asleep or drownded.I got the things all up to the cabin, and then it was about dark. WhileI was cooking supper the old man took a swig or two and got sort ofwarmed up, and went to ripping again. He had been drunk over in town,and laid in the gutter all night, and he was a sight to look at. A bodywould ’a’ thought he was Adam—he was just all mud. Whenever his liquorbegun to work he most always went for the govment. This time he says:“Call this a govment! why, just look at it and see what it’s like.Here’s the law a-standing ready to take a man’s son away from him—aman’s own son, which he has had all the trouble and all the anxietyand all the expense of raising. Yes, just as that man has got thatson raised at last, and ready to go to work and begin to do suthin’for _him_ and give him a rest, the law up and goes for him. And theycall _that_ govment! That ain’t all, nuther. The law backs that oldJudge Thatcher up and helps him to keep me out o’ my property. Here’swhat the law does: The law takes a man worth six thousand dollars andup’ards, and jams him into an old trap of a cabin like this, and letshim go round in clothes that ain’t fitten for a hog. They call thatgovment! A man can’t get his rights in a govment like this. SometimesI’ve a mighty notion to just leave the country for good and all. Yes,and I _told_ ’em so; I told old Thatcher so to his face. Lots of ’emheard me, and can tell what I said. Says I, for two cents I’d leave theblamed country and never come a-near it ag’in. Them’s the very words. Isays, look at my hat—if you call it a hat—but the lid raises up and therest of it goes down till it’s below my chin, and then it ain’t rightlya hat at all, but more like my head was shoved up through a jint o’stove-pipe. Look at it, says I—such a hat for me to wear—one of thewealthiest men in this town if I could git my rights.“Oh, yes, this is a wonderful govment, wonderful. Why, looky here.There was a free nigger there from Ohio—a mulatter, most as white asa white man. He had the whitest shirt on you ever see, too, and theshiniest hat; and there ain’t a man in that town that’s got as fineclothes as what he had; and he had a gold watch and chain, and asilver-headed cane—the awfulest old gray-headed nabob in the state. Andwhat do you think? They said he was a p’fessor in a college, and couldtalk all kinds of languages, and knowed everything. And that ain’t thewust. They said he could _vote_ when he was at home. Well, that letme out. Thinks I, what is the country a-coming to? It was ’lectionday, and I was just about to go and vote myself if I warn’t too drunkto get there; but when they told me there was a state in this countrywhere they’d let that nigger vote, I drawed out. I says I’ll never voteag’in. Them’s the very words I said; they all heard me; and the countrymay rot for all me—I’ll never vote ag’in as long as I live. And to seethe cool way of that nigger—why, he wouldn’t ’a’ give me the road ifI hadn’t shoved him out o’ the way. I says to the people, why ain’tthis nigger put up at auction and sold?—that’s what I want to know. Andwhat do you reckon they said? Why, they said he couldn’t be sold tillhe’d been in the state six months, and he hadn’t been there that longyet. There, now—that’s a specimen. They call that a govment that can’tsell a free nigger till he’s been in the state six months. Here’s agovment that calls itself a govment, and lets on to be a govment, andthinks it is a govment, and yet’s got to set stock-still for six wholemonths before it can take a-hold of a prowling, thieving, infernal,white-shirted free nigger, and—”Pap was a-going on so he never noticed where his old limber legs wastaking him to, so he went head over heels over the tub of salt porkand barked both shins, and the rest of his speech was all the hottestkind of language—mostly hove at the nigger and the govment, though hegive the tub some, too, all along, here and there. He hopped around thecabin considerable, first on one leg and then on the other, holdingfirst one shin and then the other one, and at last he let out with hisleft foot all of a sudden and fetched the tub a rattling kick. But itwarn’t good judgment, because that was the boot that had a couple ofhis toes leaking out of the front end of it; so now he raised a howlthat fairly made a body’s hair raise, and down he went in the dirt, androlled there, and held his toes; and the cussing he done then laid overanything he had ever done previous. He said so his own self afterwards.He had heard old Sowberry Hagan in his best days, and he said it laidover him, too; but I reckon that was sort of piling it on, maybe.After supper pap took the jug, and said he had enough whisky there fortwo drunks and one delirium tremens. That was always his word. I judgedhe would be blind drunk in about an hour, and then I would steal thekey, or saw myself out, one or t’other. He drank and drank, and tumbleddown on his blankets by and by; but luck didn’t run my way. He didn’tgo sound asleep, but was uneasy. He groaned and moaned and thrashedaround this way and that for a long time. At last I got so sleepy Icouldn’t keep my eyes open all I could do, and so before I knowed whatI was about I was sound asleep, and the candle burning.I don’t know how long I was asleep, but all of a sudden there was anawful scream and I was up. There was pap looking wild, and skippingaround every which way and yelling about snakes. He said they wascrawling up his legs; and then he would give a jump and scream, and sayone had bit him on the cheek—but I couldn’t see no snakes. He startedand run round and round the cabin, hollering “Take him off! take himoff! he’s biting me on the neck!” I never see a man look so wild in theeyes. Pretty soon he was all fagged out, and fell down panting; then herolled over and over wonderful fast, kicking things every which way,and striking and grabbing at the air with his hands, and screaming andsaying there was devils a-hold of him. He wore out by and by, and laidstill awhile, moaning. Then he laid stiller, and didn’t make a sound. Icould hear the owls and the wolves away off in the woods, and it seemedterrible still. He was laying over by the corner. By and by he raisedup part way and listened, with his head to one side. He says, very low:“Tramp—tramp—tramp; that’s the dead; tramp—tramp—tramp; they’re comingafter me; but I won’t go. Oh, they’re here! don’t touch me—don’t! handsoff—they’re cold; let go. Oh, let a poor devil alone!”Then he went down on all fours and crawled off, begging them to let himalone, and he rolled himself up in his blanket and wallowed in underthe old pine table, still a-begging; and then he went to crying. Icould hear him through the blanket.By and by he rolled out and jumped up on his feet looking wild, and hesee me and went for me. He chased me round and round the place with aclasp-knife, calling me the Angel of Death, and saying he would killme, and then I couldn’t come for him no more. I begged, and told himI was only Huck; but he laughed _such_ a screechy laugh, and roaredand cussed, and kept on chasing me up. Once when I turned short anddodged under his arm he made a grab and got me by the jacket between myshoulders, and I thought I was gone; but I slid out of the jacket quickas lightning, and saved myself. Pretty soon he was all tired out, anddropped down with his back against the door, and said he would rest aminute and then kill me. He put his knife under him, and said he wouldsleep and get strong, and then he would see who was who.So he dozed off pretty soon. By and by I got the old split-bottom chairand clumb up as easy as I could, not to make any noise, and got downthe gun. I slipped the ramrod down it to make sure it was loaded, andthen I laid it across the turnip-barrel, pointing towards pap, and setdown behind it to wait for him to stir. And how slow and still the timedid drag along.CHAPTER VII“Git up! What you ’bout?”I opened my eyes and looked around, trying to make out where I was. Itwas after sun-up, and I had been sound asleep. Pap was standing over melooking sour—and sick, too. He says:“What you doin’ with this gun?”I judged he didn’t know nothing about what he had been doing, so I says:“Somebody tried to get in, so I was laying for him.”“Why didn’t you roust me out?”“Well, I tried to, but I couldn’t; I couldn’t budge you.”“Well, all right. Don’t stand there palavering all day, but out withyou and see if there’s a fish on the lines for breakfast. I’ll be alongin a minute.”He unlocked the door, and I cleared out up the river-bank. I noticedsome pieces of limbs and such things floating down, and a sprinklingof bark; so I knowed the river had begun to rise. I reckoned I wouldhave great times now if I was over at the town. The June rise used tobe always luck for me; because as soon as that rise begins here comescordwood floating down, and pieces of log rafts—sometimes a dozen logstogether; so all you have to do is to catch them and sell them to thewoodyards and the sawmill.I went along up the bank with one eye out for pap and t’other one outfor what the rise might fetch along. Well, all at once here comesa canoe; just a beauty, too, about thirteen or fourteen foot long,riding high like a duck. I shot head-first off of the bank like a frog,clothes and all on, and struck out for the canoe. I just expectedthere’d be somebody laying down in it, because people often done thatto fool folks, and when a chap had pulled a skiff out most to itthey’d raise up and laugh at him. But it warn’t so this time. It was adrift-canoe sure enough, and I clumb in and paddled her ashore. ThinksI, the old man will be glad when he sees this—she’s worth ten dollars.But when I got to shore pap wasn’t in sight yet, and as I was runningher into a little creek like a gully, all hung over with vines andwillows, I struck another idea: I judged I’d hide her good, and then,’stead of taking to the woods when I run off, I’d go down the riverabout fifty mile and camp in one place for good, and not have such arough time tramping on foot.It was pretty close to the shanty, and I thought I heard the old mancoming all the time; but I got her hid; and then I out and lookedaround a bunch of willows, and there was the old man down the path apiece just drawing a bead on a bird with his gun. So he hadn’t seenanything.When he got along I was hard at it taking up a “trot” line. He abusedme a little for being so slow; but I told him I fell in the river, andthat was what made me so long. I knowed he would see I was wet, andthen he would be asking questions. We got five catfish off the linesand went home.While we laid off after breakfast to sleep up, both of us being aboutwore out, I got to thinking that if I could fix up some way to keep papand the widow from trying to follow me, it would be a certainer thingthan trusting to luck to get far enough off before they missed me; yousee, all kinds of things might happen. Well, I didn’t see no way for awhile, but by and by pap raised up a minute to drink another barrel ofwater, and he says:“Another time a man comes a-prowling round here you roust me out, youhear? That man warn’t here for no good. I’d a shot him. Next time youroust me out, you hear?”Then he dropped down and went to sleep again; what he had been sayinggive me the very idea I wanted. I says to myself, I can fix it now sonobody won’t think of following me.About twelve o’clock we turned out and went along up the bank. Theriver was coming up pretty fast, and lots of driftwood going by on therise. By and by along comes part of a log raft—nine logs fast together.We went out with the skiff and towed it ashore. Then we had dinner.Anybody but pap would ’a’ waited and seen the day through, so as tocatch more stuff; but that warn’t pap’s style. Nine logs was enoughfor one time; he must shove right over to town and sell. So he lockedme in and took the skiff, and started off towing the raft about halfpast three. I judged he wouldn’t come back that night. I waited till Ireckoned he had got a good start; then I out with my saw, and went towork on that log again. Before he was t’other side of the river I wasout of the hole; him and his raft was just a speck on the water awayoff yonder.[Illustration: HUCKLEBERRY FINN]I took the sack of corn meal and took it to where the canoe was hid,and shoved the vines and branches apart and put it in; then I done thesame with the side of bacon; then the whisky-jug. I took all the coffeeand sugar there was, and all the ammunition; I took the wadding; I tookthe bucket and gourd; took a dipper and a tin cup, and my old saw andtwo blankets, and the skillet and the coffee-pot. I took fish-lines andmatches and other things—everything that was worth a cent. I cleanedout the place. I wanted an ax, but there wasn’t any, only the one outat the woodpile, and I knowed why I was going to leave that. I fetchedout the gun, and now I was done.I had wore the ground a good deal crawling out of the hole and draggingout so many things. So I fixed that as good as I could from the outsideby scattering dust on the place, which covered up the smoothness andthe sawdust. Then I fixed the piece of log back into its place, and puttwo rocks under it and one against it to hold it there, for it was bentup at that place and didn’t quite touch ground. If you stood four orfive foot away and didn’t know it was sawed, you wouldn’t never noticeit; and besides, this was the back of the cabin, and it warn’t likelyanybody would go fooling around there.It was all grass clear to the canoe, so I hadn’t left a track. Ifollowed around to see. I stood on the bank and looked out over theriver. All safe. So I took the gun and went up a piece into thewoods, and was hunting around for some birds when I see a wild pig;hogs soon went wild in them bottoms after they had got away from theprairie-farms. I shot this fellow and took him into camp.I took the ax and smashed in the door. I beat it and hacked itconsiderable a-doing it. I fetched the pig in, and took him back nearlyto the table and hacked into his throat with the ax, and laid him downon the ground to bleed; I say ground because it _was_ ground—hardpacked, and no boards. Well, next I took an old sack and put a lot ofbig rocks in it—all I could drag—and I started it from the pig, anddragged it to the door and through the woods down to the river anddumped it in, and down it sunk, out of sight. You could easy see thatsomething had been dragged over the ground. I did wish Tom Sawyer wasthere; I knowed he would take an interest in this kind of business, andthrow in the fancy touches. Nobody could spread himself like Tom Sawyerin such a thing as that.Well, last I pulled out some of my hair, and blooded the ax good, andstuck it on the back side, and slung the ax in the corner. Then I tookup the pig and held him to my breast with my jacket (so he couldn’tdrip) till I got a good piece below the house and then dumped him intothe river. Now I thought of something else. So I went and got the bagof meal and my old saw out of the canoe, and fetched them to the house.I took the bag to where it used to stand, and ripped a hole in thebottom of it with the saw, for there warn’t no knives and forks on theplace—pap done everything with his clasp-knife about the cooking. ThenI carried the sack about a hundred yards across the grass and throughthe willows east of the house, to a shallow lake that was five milewide and full of rushes—and ducks too, you might say, in the season.There was a slough or a creek leading out of it on the other side thatwent miles away, I don’t know where, but it didn’t go to the river.The meal sifted out and made a little track all the way to the lake. Idropped pap’s whetstone there too, so as to look like it had been doneby accident. Then I tied up the rip in the meal-sack with a string, soit wouldn’t leak no more, and took it and my saw to the canoe again.It was about dark now; so I dropped the canoe down the river under somewillows that hung over the bank, and waited for the moon to rise. Imade fast to a willow; then I took a bite to eat, and by and by laiddown in the canoe to smoke a pipe and lay out a plan. I says to myself,they’ll follow the track of that sackful of rocks to the shore and thendrag the river for me. And they’ll follow that meal track to the lakeand go browsing down the creek that leads out of it to find the robbersthat killed me and took the things. They won’t ever hunt the riverfor anything but my dead carcass. They’ll soon get tired of that, andwon’t bother no more about me. All right; I can stop anywhere I wantto. Jackson’s Island is good enough for me; I know that island prettywell, and nobody ever comes there. And then I can paddle over to townnights, and slink around and pick up things I want. Jackson’s Island’sthe place.I was pretty tired, and the first thing I knowed I was asleep. When Iwoke up I didn’t know where I was for a minute. I set up and lookedaround, a little scared. Then I remembered. The river looked miles andmiles across. The moon was so bright I could ’a’ counted the drift-logsthat went a-slipping along, black and still, hundreds of yards out fromshore. Everything was dead quiet, and it looked late, and _smelt_ late.You know what I mean—I don’t know the words to put it in.I took a good gap and a stretch, and was just going to unhitch andstart when I heard a sound away over the water. I listened. Pretty soonI made it out. It was that dull kind of a regular sound that comes fromoars working in rowlocks when it’s a still night. I peeped out throughthe willow branches, and there it was—a skiff, away across the water.I couldn’t tell how many was in it. It kept a-coming, and when it wasabreast of me I see there warn’t but one man in it. Thinks I, maybeit’s pap, though I warn’t expecting him. He dropped below me with thecurrent, and by and by he came a-swinging up shore in the easy water,and he went by so close I could ’a’ reached out the gun and touchedhim. Well, it _was_ pap, sure enough—and sober, too, by the way he laidhis oars.I didn’t lose no time. The next minute I was a-spinning down-streamsoft, but quick, in the shade of the bank. I made two mile and a half,and then struck out a quarter of a mile or more toward the middle ofthe river, because pretty soon I would be passing the ferry-landing,and people might see me and hail me. I got out amongst the driftwood,and then laid down in the bottom of the canoe and let her float. Ilaid there, and had a good rest and a smoke out of my pipe, lookingaway into the sky; not a cloud in it. The sky looks ever so deep whenyou lay down on your back in the moonshine; I never knowed it before.And how far a body can hear on the water such nights! I heard peopletalking at the ferry-landing. I heard what they said, too—every wordof it. One man said it was getting towards the long days and the shortnights now. T’other one said _this_ warn’t one of the short ones, hereckoned—and then they laughed, and he said it over again, and theylaughed again; then they waked up another fellow and told him, andlaughed, but he didn’t laugh; he ripped out something brisk, and saidlet him alone. The first fellow said he ’lowed to tell it to his oldwoman—she would think it was pretty good; but he said that warn’tnothing to some things he had said in his time. I heard one man sayit was nearly three o’clock, and he hoped daylight wouldn’t wait morethan about a week longer. After that the talk got further and furtheraway, and I couldn’t make out the words any more; but I could hear themumble, and now and then a laugh, too, but it seemed a long ways off.I was away below the ferry now. I rose up, and there was Jackson’sIsland, about two mile and a half down-stream, heavy-timbered andstanding up out of the middle of the river, big and dark and solid,like a steamboat without any lights. There warn’t any signs of the barat the head—it was all under water now.It didn’t take me long to get there. I shot past the head at a rippingrate, the current was so swift, and then I got into the dead water andlanded on the side towards the Illinois shore. I run the canoe into adeep dent in the bank that I knowed about; I had to part the willowbranches to get in; and when I made fast nobody could ’a’ seen thecanoe from the outside.I went up and set down on a log at the head of the island, and lookedout on the big river and the black driftwood and away over to thetown, three mile away, where there was three or four lights twinkling.A monstrous big lumber-raft was about a mile up-stream, coming alongdown, with a lantern in the middle of it. I watched it come creepingdown, and when it was most abreast of where I stood I heard a man say,“Stern oars, there! heave her head to stabboard!” I heard that just asplain as if the man was by my side.There was a little gray in the sky now; so I stepped into the woods,and laid down for a nap before breakfast.CHAPTER VIIIThe sun was up so high when I waked that I judged it was after eighto’clock. I laid there in the grass and the cool shade thinking aboutthings, and feeling rested and ruther comfortable and satisfied. Icould see the sun out at one or two holes, but mostly it was big treesall about, and gloomy in there amongst them. There was freckled placeson the ground where the light sifted down through the leaves, and thefreckled places swapped about a little, showing there was a littlebreeze up there. A couple of squirrels set on a limb and jabbered at mevery friendly.I was powerful lazy and comfortable—didn’t want to get up and cookbreakfast. Well, I was dozing off again when I thinks I hears a deepsound of “boom!” away up the river. I rouses up, and rests on my elbowand listens; pretty soon I hears it again. I hopped up, and went andlooked out at a hole in the leaves, and I see a bunch of smoke layingon the water a long ways up—about abreast the ferry. And there was theferryboat full of people floating along down. I knowed what was thematter now. “Boom!” I see the white smoke squirt out of the ferryboat’sside. You see, they was firing cannon over the water, trying to make mycarcass come to the top.I was pretty hungry, but it warn’t going to do for me to start a fire,because they might see the smoke. So I set there and watched thecannon-smoke and listened to the boom. The river was a mile wide there,and it always looks pretty on a summer morning—so I was having a goodenough time seeing them hunt for my remainders if I only had a bite toeat. Well, then I happened to think how they always put quicksilver inloaves of bread and float them off, because they always go right tothe drownded carcass and stop there. So, says I, I’ll keep a lookout,and if any of them’s floating around after me I’ll give them a show.I changed to the Illinois edge of the island to see what luck I couldhave, and I warn’t disappointed. A big double loaf come along, and Imost got it with a long stick, but my foot slipped and she floated outfurther. Of course I was where the current set in the closest to theshore—I knowed enough for that. But by and by along comes another one,and this time I won. I took out the plug and shook out the little dabof quicksilver, and set my teeth in. It was “baker’s bread”—what thequality eat; none of your low-down corn-pone.I got a good place amongst the leaves, and set there on a log, munchingthe bread and watching the ferryboat, and very well satisfied. And thensomething struck me. I says, now I reckon the widow or the parson orsomebody prayed that this bread would find me, and here it has goneand done it. So there ain’t no doubt but there is something in thatthing—that is, there’s something in it when a body like the widow orthe parson prays, but it don’t work for me, and I reckon it don’t workfor only just the right kind.I lit a pipe and had a good long smoke, and went on watching. Theferryboat was floating with the current, and I allowed I’d have achance to see who was aboard when she come along, because she wouldcome in close, where the bread did. When she’d got pretty well alongdown towards me, I put out my pipe and went to where I fished out thebread, and laid down behind a log on the bank in a little open place.Where the log forked I could peep through.By and by she come along, and she drifted in so close that they could’a’ run out a plank and walked ashore. Most everybody was on the boat.Pap, and Judge Thatcher, and Bessie Thatcher, and Joe Harper, and TomSawyer, and his old Aunt Polly, and Sid and Mary, and plenty more.Everybody was talking about the murder, but the captain broke in andsays:“Look sharp, now; the current sets in the closest here, and maybe he’swashed ashore and got tangled amongst the brush at the water’s edge. Ihope so, anyway.”I didn’t hope so. They all crowded up and leaned over the rails, nearlyin my face, and kept still, watching with all their might. I couldsee them first-rate, but they couldn’t see me. Then the captain sungout: “Stand away!” and the cannon let off such a blast right beforeme that it made me deef with the noise and pretty near blind with thesmoke, and I judged I was gone. If they’d ’a’ had some bullets in, Ireckon they’d ’a’ got the corpse they was after. Well, I see I warn’thurt, thanks to goodness. The boat floated on and went out of sightaround the shoulder of the island. I could hear the booming now andthen, further and further off, and by and by, after an hour, I didn’thear it no more. The island was three mile long. I judged they had gotto the foot, and was giving it up. But they didn’t yet awhile. Theyturned around the foot of the island and started up the channel on theMissouri side, under steam, and booming once in a while as they went. Icrossed over to that side and watched them. When they got abreast thehead of the island they quit shooting and dropped over to the Missourishore and went home to the town.I knowed I was all right now. Nobody else would come a-hunting afterme. I got my traps out of the canoe and made me a nice camp in thethick woods. I made a kind of a tent out of my blankets to put mythings under so the rain couldn’t get at them. I catched a catfishand haggled him open with my saw, and towards sundown I started mycamp-fire and had supper. Then I set out a line to catch some fish forbreakfast.When it was dark I set by my camp-fire smoking, and feeling pretty wellsatisfied; but by and by it got sort of lonesome, and so I went and seton the bank and listened to the current swashing along, and counted thestars and drift-logs and rafts that come down, and then went to bed;there ain’t no better way to put in time when you are lonesome; youcan’t stay so, you soon get over it.And so for three days and nights. No difference—just the same thing.But the next day I went exploring around down through the island. Iwas boss of it; it all belonged to me, so to say, and I wanted to knowall about it; but mainly I wanted to put in the time. I found plentystrawberries, ripe and prime; and green summer grapes, and greenrazberries; and the green blackberries was just beginning to show. Theywould all come handy by and by, I judged.Well, I went fooling along in the deep woods till I judged I warn’tfar from the foot of the island. I had my gun along, but I hadn’t shotnothing; it was for protection; thought I would kill some game nighhome. About this time I mighty near stepped on a good-sized snake, andit went sliding off through the grass and flowers, and I after it,trying to get a shot at it. I clipped along, and all of a sudden Ibounded right on to the ashes of a camp-fire that was still smoking.My heart jumped up amongst my lungs. I never waited for to lookfurther, but uncocked my gun and went sneaking back on my tiptoes asfast as ever I could. Every now and then I stopped a second amongst thethick leaves and listened, but my breath come so hard I couldn’t hearnothing else. I slunk along another piece further, then listened again;and so on, and so on. If I see a stump, I took it for a man; if I trodon a stick and broke it, it made me feel like a person had cut one ofmy breaths in two and I only got half, and the short half, too.When I got to camp I warn’t feeling very brash, there warn’t much sandin my craw; but I says, this ain’t no time to be fooling around. So Igot all my traps into my canoe again so as to have them out of sight,and I put out the fire and scattered the ashes around to look like anold last-year’s camp, and then clumb a tree.I reckon I was up in the tree two hours; but I didn’t see nothing, Ididn’t hear nothing—I only _thought_ I heard and seen as much as athousand things. Well, I couldn’t stay up there forever; so at lastI got down, but I kept in the thick woods and on the lookout all thetime. All I could get to eat was berries and what was left over frombreakfast.By the time it was night I was pretty hungry. So when it was good anddark I slid out from shore before moonrise and paddled over to theIllinois bank—about a quarter of a mile. I went out in the woods andcooked a supper, and I had about made up my mind I would stay thereall night when I hear a _plunkety-plunk_, _plunkety-plunk_, and saysto myself, horses coming; and next I hear people’s voices. I goteverything into the canoe as quick as I could, and then went creepingthrough the woods to see what I could find out. I hadn’t got far when Ihear a man say:“We better camp here if we can find a good place; the horses is aboutbeat out. Let’s look around.”I didn’t wait, but shoved out and paddled away easy. I tied up in theold place, and reckoned I would sleep in the canoe.I didn’t sleep much. I couldn’t, somehow, for thinking. And every timeI waked up I thought somebody had me by the neck. So the sleep didn’tdo me no good. By and by I says to myself, I can’t live this way; I’ma-going to find out who it is that’s here on the island with me; I’llfind it out or bust. Well, I felt better right off.So I took my paddle and slid out from shore just a step or two, andthen let the canoe drop along down amongst the shadows. The moon wasshining, and outside of the shadows it made it most as light as day.I poked along well on to an hour, everything still as rocks and soundasleep. Well, by this time I was most down to the foot of the island.A little ripply, cool breeze begun to blow, and that was as good assaying the night was about done. I give her a turn with the paddle andbrung her nose to shore; then I got my gun and slipped out and into theedge of the woods. I sat down there on a log, and looked out throughthe leaves. I see the moon go off watch, and the darkness begin toblanket the river. But in a little while I see a pale streak over thetree-tops, and knowed the day was coming. So I took my gun and slippedoff towards where I had run across that camp-fire, stopping everyminute or two to listen. But I hadn’t no luck somehow; I couldn’t seemto find the place. But by and by, sure enough, I catched a glimpseof fire away through the trees. I went for it, cautious and slow. Byand by I was close enough to have a look, and there laid a man on theground. It most give me the fantods. He had a blanket around his head,and his head was nearly in the fire. I set there behind a clump ofbushes in about six foot of him, and kept my eyes on him steady. It wasgetting gray daylight now. Pretty soon he gapped and stretched himselfand hove off the blanket, and it was Miss Watson’s Jim! I bet I wasglad to see him. I says:“Hello, Jim!” and skipped out.He bounced up and stared at me wild. Then he drops down on his knees,and puts his hands together and says:“Doan’ hurt me—don’t! I hain’t ever done no harm to a ghos’. I alwuzliked dead people, en done all I could for ’em. You go en git in deriver ag’in, whah you b’longs, en doan’ do nuffn to Ole Jim, ’at ’uzalwuz yo’ fren’.”Well, I warn’t long making him understand I warn’t dead. I was ever soglad to see Jim. I warn’t lonesome now. I told him I warn’t afraid of_him_ telling the people where I was. I talked along, but he only setthere and looked at me; never said nothing. Then I says:“It’s good daylight. Le’s get breakfast. Make up your camp-fire good.”“What’s de use er makin’ up de camp-fire to cook strawbries en sichtruck? But you got a gun, hain’t you? Den we kin git sumfn better denstrawbries.”“Strawberries and such truck,” I says. “Is that what you live on?”“I couldn’ git nuffn else,” he says.“Why, how long you been on the island, Jim?”“I come heah de night arter you’s killed.”“What, all that time?”“Yes-indeedy.”“And ain’t you had nothing but that kind of rubbage to eat?”“No, sah—nuffn else.”“Well, you must be most starved, ain’t you?”“I reck’n I could eat a hoss. I think I could. How long you ben on deislan’?”“Since the night I got killed.”“No! W’y, what has you lived on? But you got a gun. Oh, yes, you got agun. Dat’s good. Now you kill sumfn en I’ll make up de fire.”So we went over to where the canoe was, and while he built a fire ina grassy open place amongst the trees, I fetched meal and bacon andcoffee, and coffee-pot and frying-pan, and sugar and tin cups, and thenigger was set back considerable, because he reckoned it was all donewith witchcraft. I catched a good big catfish, too, and Jim cleaned himwith his knife, and fried him.When breakfast was ready we lolled on the grass and eat it smoking hot.Jim laid it in with all his might, for he was most about starved. Thenwhen we had got pretty well stuffed, we laid off and lazied.By and by Jim says:“But looky here, Huck, who wuz it dat ’uz killed in dat shanty ef itwarn’t you?”Then I told him the whole thing, and he said it was smart. He said TomSawyer couldn’t get up no better plan than what I had. Then I says:“How do you come to be here, Jim, and how’d you get here?”He looked pretty uneasy, and didn’t say nothing for a minute. Then hesays:“Maybe I better not tell.”“Why, Jim?”“Well, dey’s reasons. But you wouldn’ tell on me ef I ’uz to tell you,would you, Huck?”“Blamed if I would, Jim.”“Well, I b’lieve you, Huck. I—I _run off_.”“Jim!”“But mind, you said you wouldn’ tell—you know you said you wouldn’tell, Huck.”“Well, I did. I said I wouldn’t, and I’ll stick to it. Honest _injun_,I will. People would call me a low-down Abolitionist and despise me forkeeping mum—but that don’t make no difference. I ain’t a-going to tell,and I ain’t a-going back there, anyways. So, now, le’s know all aboutit.”“Well, you see, it ’uz dis way. Ole missus—dat’s Miss Watson—she peckson me all de time, en treats me pooty rough, but she awluz said shewouldn’ sell me down to Orleans. But I noticed dey wuz a nigger traderroun’ de place considable lately, en I begin to git oneasy. Well, onenight I creeps to de do’ pooty late, en de do’ warn’t quite shet, en Ihear old missus tell de widder she gwyne to sell me down to Orleans,but she didn’ want to, but she could git eight hund’d dollars for me,en it ’uz sich a big stack o’ money she couldn’ resis’. De widder shetry to git her to say she wouldn’t do it, but I never waited to hear deres’. I lit out mighty quick, I tell you.“I tuck out en shin down de hill, en ’spec to steal a skift ’long desho’ som’ers ’bove de town, but dey wuz people a-stirring yit, so I hidin de ole tumbledown cooper shop on de bank to wait for everybody to go’way. Well, I wuz dah all night. Dey wuz somebody roun’ all de time.’Long ’bout six in de mawnin’ skifts begin to go by, en ’bout eight ernine every skift dat went ’long wuz talkin’ ’bout how yo’ pap come overto de town en say you’s killed. Dese las’ skifts wuz full o’ ladies engenlmen a-goin’ over for to see de place. Sometimes dey’d pull up at desho’ en take a res’ b’fo’ dey started acrost, so by de talk I got toknow all ’bout de killin’. I ’uz powerful sorry you’s killed, Huck, butI ain’t no mo’ now.“I laid dah under de shavin’s all day. I ’uz hungry, but I warn’tafeard; bekase I knowed ole missus en de widder wuz goin’ to start tode camp-meet’n’ right arter breakfas’ en be gone all day, en dey knowsI goes off wid de cattle ’bout daylight, so dey wouldn’ ’spec to seeme roun’ de place, en so dey wouldn’ miss me tell arter dark in deevenin’. De yuther servants wouldn’ miss me, kase dey’d shin out entake holiday soon as de ole folks ’uz out’n de way.“Well, when it come dark I tuck out up de river road, en went ’bout twomile er more to whah dey warn’t no houses. I’d made up my mine ’boutwhat I’s a-gwyne to do. You see, ef I kep’ on tryin’ to git away afoot,de dogs ’ud track me; ef I stole a skift to cross over, dey’d miss datskift, you see, en dey’d know ’bout whah I’d lan’ on de yuther side, enwhah to pick up my track. So I says, a raff is what I’s arter; it doan’_make_ no track.“I see a light a-comin’ roun’ de p’int bymeby, so I wade’ in en shove’a log ahead o’ me en swum more’n half-way acrost de river, en got in’mongst de driftwood, en kep’ my head down low, en kinder swum agin decurrent tell de raff come along. Den I swum to de stern uv it en tucka-holt. It clouded up en ’uz pooty dark for a little while. So I clumbup en laid down on de planks. De men ’uz all ’way yonder in de middle,whah de lantern wuz. De river wuz a-risin’, en dey wuz a good current;so I reck’n’d ’at by fo’ in de mawnin’ I’d be twenty-five mile down deriver, en den I’d slip in jis b’fo’ daylight en swim asho’, en take tode woods on de Illinois side.“But I didn’ have no luck. When we ’uz mos’ down to de head er deislan’ a man begin to come aft wid de lantern. I see it warn’t no usefer to wait, so I slid overboard en struck out fer de islan’. Well, Ihad a notion I could lan’ mos’ anywhers, but I couldn’t—bank too bluff.I ’uz mos’ to de foot er de islan’ b’fo’ I foun’ a good place. I wentinto de woods en jedged I wouldn’ fool wid raffs no mo’, long as deymove de lantern roun’ so. I had my pipe en a plug er dog-leg en somematches in my cap, en dey warn’t wet, so I ’uz all right.”“And so you ain’t had no meat nor bread to eat all this time? Whydidn’t you get mud-turkles?”“How you gwyne to git ’m? You can’t slip up on um en grab um; en how’sa body gwyne to hit um wid a rock? How could a body do it in de night?En I warn’t gwyne to show mysef on de bank in de daytime.”“Well, that’s so. You’ve had to keep in the woods all the time, ofcourse. Did you hear ’em shooting the cannon?”“Oh, yes. I knowed dey was arter you. I see um go by heah—watched umthoo de bushes.”Some young birds come along, flying a yard or two at a time andlighting. Jim said it was a sign it was going to rain. He said it was asign when young chickens flew that way, and so he reckoned it was thesame way when young birds done it. I was going to catch some of them,but Jim wouldn’t let me. He said it was death. He said his father laidmighty sick once, and some of them catched a bird, and his old grannysaid his father would die, and he did.And Jim said you mustn’t count the things you are going to cook fordinner, because that would bring bad luck. The same if you shook thetablecloth after sundown. And he said if a man owned a beehive and thatman died, the bees must be told about it before sun-up next morning,or else the bees would all weaken down and quit work and die. Jim saidbees wouldn’t sting idiots; but I didn’t believe that, because I hadtried them lots of times myself, and they wouldn’t sting me.I had heard about some of these things before, but not all of them. Jimknowed all kinds of signs. He said he knowed most everything. I said itlooked to me like all the signs was about bad luck, and so I asked himif there warn’t any good-luck signs. He says:“Mighty few—an’ _dey_ ain’t no use to a body. What you want to knowwhen good luck’s a-comin’ for? Want to keep it off?” And he said: “Efyou’s got hairy arms en a hairy breas’, it’s a sign dat you’s a-gwyneto be rich. Well, dey’s some use in a sign like dat, ’kase it’s so furahead. You see, maybe you’s got to be po’ a long time fust, en so youmight git discourage’ en kill yo’sef ’f you didn’ know by de sign datyou gwyne to be rich bymeby.”“Have you got hairy arms and a hairy breast, Jim?”“What’s de use to ax dat question? Don’t you see I has?”“Well, are you rich?”“No, but I ben rich wunst, and gwyne to be rich ag’in. Wunst I hadfoteen dollars, but I tuck to specalat’n’, en got busted out.”“What did you speculate in, Jim?”“Well, fust I tackled stock.”“What kind of stock?”“Why, live stock—cattle, you know. I put ten dollars in a cow. But Iain’ gwyne to resk no mo’ money in stock. De cow up ’n’ died on myhan’s.”“So you lost the ten dollars.”“No, I didn’t lose it all. I on’y los’ ’bout nine of it. I sole de hideen taller for a dollar en ten cents.”“You had five dollars and ten cents left. Did you speculate any more?”“Yes. You know that one-laigged nigger dat b’longs to old MistoBradish? Well, he sot up a bank, en say anybody dat put in a dollarwould git fo’ dollars mo’ at de en’ er de year. Well, all de niggerswent in, but dey didn’t have much. I wuz de on’y one dat had much. SoI stuck out for mo’ dan fo’ dollars, en I said ’f I didn’ git it I’dstart a bank mysef. Well, o’ course dat nigger want’ to keep me out erde business, bekase he says dey warn’t business ’nough for two banks,so he say I could put in my five dollars en he pay me thirty-five at deen’ er de year.“So I done it. Den I reck’n’d I’d inves’ de thirty-five dollars rightoff en keep things a-movin’. Dey wuz a nigger name’ Bob, dat hadketched a wood-flat, en his marster didn’ know it; en I bought itoff’n him en told him to take de thirty-five dollars when de en’ er deyear come; but somebody stole de wood-flat dat night, en nex’ day deone-laigged nigger say de bank’s busted. So dey didn’ none uv us git nomoney.”“What did you do with the ten cents, Jim?”“Well, I ’uz gwyne to spen’ it, but I had a dream, en de dream tole meto give it to a nigger name’ Balum—Balum’s Ass dey call him for short;he’s one er dem chuckleheads, you know. But he’s lucky, dey say, en Isee I warn’t lucky. De dream say let Balum inves’ de ten cents en he’dmake a raise for me. Well, Balum he tuck de money, en when he wuz inchurch he hear de preacher say dat whoever give to de po’ len’ to deLord, en boun’ to git his money back a hund’d times. So Balum he tucken give de ten cents to de po’, en laid low to see what wuz gwyne tocome of it.”“Well, what did come of it, Jim?”“Nuffn never come of it. I couldn’ manage to k’leck dat money no way;en Balum he couldn’. I ain’ gwyne to len’ no mo’ money ’dout I see desecurity. Boun’ to git yo’ money back a hund’d times, de preacher says!Ef I could git de ten _cents_ back, I’d call it squah, en be glad er dechanst.”“Well, it’s all right anyway, Jim, long as you’re going to be richagain some time or other.”“Yes; en I’s rich now, come to look at it. I owns mysef, en I’s wutheight hund’d dollars. I wisht I had de money, I wouldn’ want no mo’.”CHAPTER IXI wanted to go and look at a place right about the middle of the islandthat I’d found when I was exploring; so we started and soon got to it,because the island was only three miles long and a quarter of a milewide.This place was a tolerable long, steep hill or ridge about forty foothigh. We had a rough time getting to the top, the sides was so steepand the bushes so thick. We tramped and clumb around all over it, andby and by found a good big cavern in the rock, most up to the top onthe side towards Illinois. The cavern was as big as two or three roomsbunched together, and Jim could stand up straight in it. It was cool inthere. Jim was for putting our traps in there right away, but I said wedidn’t want to be climbing up and down there all the time.Jim said if we had the canoe hid in a good place, and had all thetraps in the cavern, we could rush there if anybody was to come to theisland, and they would never find us without dogs. And, besides, hesaid them little birds had said it was going to rain, and did I wantthe things to get wet?So we went back and got the canoe, and paddled up abreast the cavern,and lugged all the traps up there. Then we hunted up a place close byto hide the canoe in, amongst the thick willows. We took some fish offof the lines and set them again, and begun to get ready for dinner.The door of the cavern was big enough to roll a hogshead in, and on oneside of the door the floor stuck out a little bit, and was flat and agood place to build a fire on. So we built it there and cooked dinner.We spread the blankets inside for a carpet, and eat our dinner inthere. We put all the other things handy at the back of the cavern.Pretty soon it darkened up, and begun to thunder and lighten; so thebirds was right about it. Directly it begun to rain, and it rainedlike all fury, too, and I never see the wind blow so. It was one ofthese regular summer storms. It would get so dark that it looked allblue-black outside, and lovely; and the rain would thrash along by sothick that the trees off a little ways looked dim and spider-webby;and here would come a blast of wind that would bend the trees down andturn up the pale underside of the leaves; and then a perfect ripper ofa gust would follow along and set the branches to tossing their armsas if they was just wild; and next, when it was just about the bluestand blackest—_fst!_ it was as bright as glory, and you’d have a littleglimpse of tree-tops a-plunging about away off yonder in the storm,hundreds of yards further than you could see before; dark as sin againin a second, and now you’d hear the thunder let go with an awful crash,and then go rumbling, grumbling, tumbling, down the sky towards theunder side of the world, like rolling empty barrels down-stairs—whereit’s long stairs and they bounce a good deal, you know.“Jim, this is nice,” I says. “I wouldn’t want to be nowhere else buthere. Pass me along another hunk of fish and some hot corn-bread.”“Well, you wouldn’t ’a’ ben here ’f it hadn’t ’a’ ben for Jim. You’d’a’ ben down dah in de woods widout any dinner, en gittin’ mos’drownded, too; dat you would, honey. Chickens knows when it’s gwyne torain, en so do de birds, chile.”The river went on raising and raising for ten or twelve days, till atlast it was over the banks. The water was three or four foot deep onthe island in the low places and on the Illinois bottom. On that sideit was a good many miles wide, but on the Missouri side it was the sameold distance across—a half a mile—because the Missouri shore was just awall of high bluffs.Daytimes we paddled all over the island in the canoe. It was mightycool and shady in the deep woods, even if the sun was blazing outside.We went winding in and out amongst the trees, and sometimes the vineshung so thick we had to back away and go some other way. Well, on everyold broken-down tree you could see rabbits and snakes and such things;and when the island had been overflowed a day or two they got so tame,on account of being hungry, that you could paddle right up and put yourhand on them if you wanted to; but not the snakes and turtles—theywould slide off in the water. The ridge our cavern was in was full ofthem. We could ’a’ had pets enough if we’d wanted them.One night we catched a little section of a lumber-raft—nice pineplanks. It was twelve foot wide and about fifteen or sixteen foot long,and the top stood above water six or seven inches—a solid, level floor.We could see saw-logs go by in the daylight sometimes, but we let themgo; we didn’t show ourselves in daylight.Another night when we was up at the head of the island, just beforedaylight, here comes a frame-house down, on the west side. She wasa two-story, and tilted over considerable. We paddled out and gotaboard—clumb in at an up-stairs window. But it was too dark to see yet,so we made the canoe fast and set in her to wait for daylight.The light begun to come before we got to the foot of the island. Thenwe looked in at the window. We could make out a bed, and a table, andtwo old chairs, and lots of things around about on the floor, and therewas clothes hanging against the wall. There was something laying on thefloor in the far corner that looked like a man. So Jim says:“Hello, you!”But it didn’t budge. So I hollered again, and then Jim says:“De man ain’t asleep—he’s dead. You hold still—I’ll go en see.”He went, and bent down and looked, and says:“It’s a dead man. Yes, indeedy; naked, too. He’s ben shot in de back. Ireck’n he’s ben dead two er three days. Come in, Huck, but doan’ lookat his face—it’s too gashly.”I didn’t look at him at all. Jim throwed some old rags over him, buthe needn’t done it; I didn’t want to see him. There was heaps of oldgreasy cards scattered around over the floor, and old whisky-bottles,and a couple of masks made out of black cloth; and all over the wallswas the ignorantest kind of words and pictures made with charcoal.There was two old dirty calico dresses, and a sun-bonnet, and somewomen’s underclothes hanging against the wall, and some men’s clothing,too. We put the lot into the canoe—it might come good. There was aboy’s old speckled straw hat on the floor; I took that, too. And therewas a bottle that had had milk in it, and it had a rag stopper for ababy to suck. We would ’a’ took the bottle, but it was broke. There wasa seedy old chest, and an old hair trunk with the hinges broke. Theystood open, but there warn’t nothing left in them that was any account.The way things was scattered about we reckoned the people left in ahurry, and warn’t fixed so as to carry off most of their stuff.We got an old tin lantern, and a butcher-knife without any handle,and a bran-new Barlow knife worth two bits in any store, and a lot oftallow candles, and a tin candlestick, and a gourd, and a tin cup,and a ratty old bedquilt off the bed, and a reticule with needles andpins and beeswax and buttons and thread and all such truck in it, anda hatchet and some nails, and a fish-line as thick as my little fingerwith some monstrous hooks on it, and a roll of buckskin, and a leatherdog-collar, and a horseshoe, and some vials of medicine that didn’thave no label on them; and just as we was leaving I found a tolerablegood currycomb, and Jim he found a ratty old fiddle-bow, and a woodenleg. The straps was broke off of it, but, barring that, it was a goodenough leg, though it was too long for me and not long enough for Jim,and we couldn’t find the other one, though we hunted all around.And so, take it all around, we made a good haul. When we was readyto shove off we was a quarter of a mile below the island, and it waspretty broad day; so I made Jim lay down in the canoe and cover up withthe quilt, because if he set up people could tell he was a nigger agood ways off. I paddled over to the Illinois shore, and drifted downmost a half a mile doing it. I crept up the dead water under the bank,and hadn’t no accidents and didn’t see nobody. We got home all safe.CHAPTER XAfter breakfast I wanted to talk about the dead man and guess out howhe come to be killed, but Jim didn’t want to. He said it would fetchbad luck; and besides, he said, he might come and ha’nt us; he said aman that warn’t buried was more likely to go a-ha’nting around thanone that was planted and comfortable. That sounded pretty reasonable,so I didn’t say no more; but I couldn’t keep from studying over it andwishing I knowed who shot the man, and what they done it for.We rummaged the clothes we’d got, and found eight dollars in silversewed up in the lining of an old blanket overcoat. Jim said he reckonedthe people in that house stole the coat, because if they’d ’a’ knowedthe money was there they wouldn’t ’a’ left it. I said I reckoned theykilled him, too; but Jim didn’t want to talk about that. I says:“Now you think it’s bad luck; but what did you say when I fetchedin the snake-skin that I found on the top of the ridge day beforeyesterday? You said it was the worst bad luck in the world to touch asnake-skin with my hands. Well, here’s your bad luck! We’ve raked inall this truck and eight dollars besides. I wish we could have some badluck like this every day, Jim.”“Never you mind, honey, never you mind. Don’t you git too peart. It’sa-comin’. Mind I tell you, it’s a-comin’.”It did come, too. It was a Tuesday that we had that talk. Well, afterdinner Friday we was laying around in the grass at the upper end of theridge, and got out of tobacco. I went to the cavern to get some, andfound a rattlesnake in there. I killed him, and curled him up on thefoot of Jim’s blanket, ever so natural, thinking there’d be some funwhen Jim found him there. Well, by night I forgot all about the snake,and when Jim flung himself down on the blanket while I struck a lightthe snake’s mate was there, and bit him.He jumped up yelling, and the first thing the light showed was thevarmint curled up and ready for another spring. I laid him out in asecond with a stick, and Jim grabbed pap’s whisky-jug and begun to pourit down.He was barefooted, and the snake bit him right on the heel. That allcomes of my being such a fool as to not remember that wherever youleave a dead snake its mate always comes there and curls around it.Jim told me to chop off the snake’s head and throw it away, and thenskin the body and roast a piece of it. I done it, and he eat it andsaid it would help cure him. He made me take off the rattles and tiethem around his wrist, too. He said that that would help. Then I slidout quiet and throwed the snakes clear away amongst the bushes; for Iwarn’t going to let Jim find out it was all my fault, not if I couldhelp it.Jim sucked and sucked at the jug, and now and then he got out of hishead and pitched around and yelled; but every time he come to himselfhe went to sucking at the jug again. His foot swelled up pretty big,and so did his leg; but by and by the drunk begun to come, and so Ijudged he was all right; but I’d druther been bit with a snake thanpap’s whisky.Jim was laid up for four days and nights. Then the swelling was allgone and he was around again. I made up my mind I wouldn’t ever takea-holt of a snake-skin again with my hands, now that I see what hadcome of it. Jim said he reckoned I would believe him next time. Andhe said that handling a snake-skin was such awful bad luck that maybewe hadn’t got to the end of it yet. He said he druther see the newmoon over his left shoulder as much as a thousand times than take up asnake-skin in his hand. Well, I was getting to feel that way myself,though I’ve always reckoned that looking at the new moon over your leftshoulder is one of the carelessest and foolishest things a body cando. Old Hank Bunker done it once, and bragged about it; and in lessthan two years he got drunk and fell off of the shot-tower, and spreadhimself out so that he was just a kind of a layer, as you may say; andthey slid him edgeways between two barn doors for a coffin, and buriedhim so, so they say, but I didn’t see it. Pap told me. But anyway itall come of looking at the moon that way, like a fool.Well, the days went along, and the river went down between its banksagain; and about the first thing we done was to bait one of the bighooks with a skinned rabbit and set it and catch a catfish that wasas big as a man, being six foot two inches long, and weighed over twohundred pounds. We couldn’t handle him, of course; he would ’a’ flungus into Illinois. We just set there and watched him rip and tear aroundtill he drownded. We found a brass button in his stomach and a roundball, and lots of rubbage. We split the ball open with the hatchet,and there was a spool in it. Jim said he’d had it there a long time,to coat it over so and make a ball of it. It was as big a fish as wasever catched in the Mississippi, I reckon. Jim said he hadn’t ever seena bigger one. He would ’a’ been worth a good deal over at the village.They peddle out such a fish as that by the pound in the market-housethere; everybody buys some of him; his meat’s as white as snow andmakes a good fry.Next morning I said it was getting slow and dull, and I wanted to geta stirring-up some way. I said I reckoned I would slip over the riverand find out what was going on. Jim liked that notion; but he said Imust go in the dark and look sharp. Then he studied it over and said,couldn’t I put on some of them old things and dress up like a girl?That was a good notion, too. So we shortened up one of the calicogowns, and I turned up my trouser-legs to my knees and got into it. Jimhitched it behind with the hooks, and it was a fair fit. I put on thesun-bonnet and tied it under my chin, and then for a body to look inand see my face was like looking down a joint of stove-pipe. Jim saidnobody would know me, even in the daytime, hardly. I practised aroundall day to get the hang of the things, and by and by I could do prettywell in them, only Jim said I didn’t walk like a girl; and he saidI must quit pulling up my gown to get at my britches-pocket. I tooknotice, and done better.I started up the Illinois shore in the canoe just after dark.I started across to the town from a little below the ferry-landing,and the drift of the current fetched me in at the bottom of the town.I tied up and started along the bank. There was a light burning in alittle shanty that hadn’t been lived in for a long time, and I wonderedwho had took up quarters there. I slipped up and peeped in at thewindow. There was a woman about forty year old in there knitting bya candle that was on a pine table. I didn’t know her face; she was astranger, for you couldn’t start a face in that town that I didn’tknow. Now this was lucky, because I was weakening; I was gettingafraid I had come; people might know my voice and find me out. But ifthis woman had been in such a little town two days she could tell meall I wanted to know; so I knocked at the door, and made up my mind Iwouldn’t forget I was a girl.CHAPTER XI“Come in,” says the woman, and I did. She says: “Take a cheer.”I done it. She looked me all over with her little shiny eyes, and says:“What might your name be?”“Sarah Williams.”“Where’bouts do you live? In this neighborhood?”“No’m. In Hookerville, seven mile below. I’ve walked all the way andI’m all tired out.”“Hungry, too, I reckon. I’ll find you something.”“No’m, I ain’t hungry. I was so hungry I had to stop two miles belowhere at a farm; so I ain’t hungry no more. It’s what makes me so late.My mother’s down sick, and out of money and everything, and I come totell my uncle Abner Moore. He lives at the upper end of the town, shesays. I hain’t ever been here before. Do you know him?”“No; but I don’t know everybody yet. I haven’t lived here quite twoweeks. It’s a considerable ways to the upper end of the town. Youbetter stay here all night. Take off your bonnet.”“No,” I says; “I’ll rest awhile, I reckon, and go on. I ain’t afeard ofthe dark.”She said she wouldn’t let me go by myself, but her husband would be inby and by, maybe in a hour and a half, and she’d send him along withme. Then she got to talking about her husband, and about her relationsup the river, and her relations down the river, and about how muchbetter off they used to was, and how they didn’t know but they’d made amistake coming to our town, instead of letting well alone—and so on andso on, till I was afeard _I_ had made a mistake coming to her to findout what was going on in the town; but by and by she dropped on to papand the murder, and then I was pretty willing to let her clatter rightalong. She told about me and Tom Sawyer finding the twelve thousanddollars (only she got it twenty) and all about pap and what a hard lothe was, and what a hard lot I was, and at last she got down to where Iwas murdered. I says:“Who done it? We’ve heard considerable about these goings-on down inHookerville, but we don’t know who ’twas that killed Huck Finn.”“Well, I reckon there’s a right smart chance of people _here_ that ’dlike to know who killed him. Some think old Finn done it himself.”“No—is that so?”“Most everybody thought it at first. He’ll never know how nigh he cometo getting lynched. But before night they changed around and judged itwas done by a runaway nigger named Jim.”“Why _he_—”I stopped. I reckoned I better keep still. She run on, and nevernoticed I had put in at all:“The nigger run off the very night Huck Finn was killed. So there’sa reward out for him—three hundred dollars. And there’s a reward outfor old Finn, too—two hundred dollars. You see, he come to town themorning after the murder, and told about it, and was out with ’em onthe ferryboat hunt, and right away after he up and left. Before nightthey wanted to lynch him, but he was gone, you see. Well, next daythey found out the nigger was gone; they found out he hadn’t ben seensence ten o’clock the night the murder was done. So then they put it onhim, you see; and while they was full of it, next day, back comes oldFinn, and went boo-hooing to Judge Thatcher to get money to hunt forthe nigger all over Illinois with. The judge gave him some, and thatevening he got drunk, and was around till after midnight with a coupleof mighty hard-looking strangers, and then went off with them. Well, hehain’t come back sence, and they ain’t looking for him back till thisthing blows over a little, for people thinks now that he killed his boyand fixed things so folks would think robbers done it, and then he’dget Huck’s money without having to bother a long time with a lawsuit.People do say he warn’t any too good to do it. Oh, he’s sly, I reckon.If he don’t come back for a year he’ll be all right. You can’t proveanything on him, you know; everything will be quieted down then, andhe’ll walk in Huck’s money as easy as nothing.”“Yes, I reckon so, ’m. I don’t see nothing in the way of it. Haseverybody quit thinking the nigger done it?”“Oh, no, not everybody. A good many thinks he done it. But they’ll getthe nigger pretty soon now, and maybe they can scare it out of him.”“Why, are they after him yet?”“Well, you’re innocent, ain’t you! Does three hundred dollars layaround every day for people to pick up? Some folks think the niggerain’t far from here. I’m one of them—but I hain’t talked it around. Afew days ago I was talking with an old couple that lives next door inthe log shanty, and they happened to say hardly anybody ever goes tothat island over yonder that they call Jackson’s Island. Don’t anybodylive there? says I. No, nobody, says they. I didn’t say any more, butI done some thinking. I was pretty near certain I’d seen smoke overthere, about the head of the island, a day or two before that, so Isays to myself, like as not that nigger’s hiding over there; anyway,says I, it’s worth the trouble to give the place a hunt. I hain’tseen any smoke sence, so I reckon maybe he’s gone, if it was him; buthusband’s going over to see—him and another man. He was gone up theriver; but he got back to-day, and I told him as soon as he got heretwo hours ago.”I had got so uneasy I couldn’t set still. I had to do something withmy hands; so I took up a needle off of the table and went to threadingit. My hands shook, and I was making a bad job of it. When the womanstopped talking I looked up, and she was looking at me pretty curiousand smiling a little. I put down the needle and thread, and let on tobe interested—and I was, too—and says:“Three hundred dollars is a power of money. I wish my mother could getit. Is your husband going over there to-night?”“Oh, yes. He went up-town with the man I was telling you of, to get aboat and see if they could borrow another gun. They’ll go over aftermidnight.”“Couldn’t they see better if they was to wait till daytime?”“Yes. And couldn’t the nigger see better, too? After midnight he’lllikely be asleep, and they can slip around through the woods and huntup his camp-fire all the better for the dark, if he’s got one.”“I didn’t think of that.”The woman kept looking at me pretty curious, and I didn’t feel a bitcomfortable. Pretty soon she says:“What did you say your name was, honey?”“M—Mary Williams.”Somehow it didn’t seem to me that I said it was Mary before, so Ididn’t look up—seemed to me I said it was Sarah; so I felt sort ofcornered, and was afeard maybe I was looking it, too. I wished thewoman would say something more; the longer she set still the uneasier Iwas. But now she says:“Honey, I thought you said it was Sarah when you first come in?”“Oh, yes’m, I did. Sarah Mary Williams. Sarah’s my first name. Somecalls me Sarah, some calls me Mary.”“Oh, that’s the way of it?”“Yes’m.”I was feeling better then, but I wished I was out of there, anyway. Icouldn’t look up yet.Well, the woman fell to talking about how hard times was, and howpoor they had to live, and how the rats was as free as if they ownedthe place, and so forth and so on, and then I got easy again. She wasright about the rats. You’d see one stick his nose out of a hole in thecorner every little while. She said she had to have things handy tothrow at them when she was alone, or they wouldn’t give her no peace.She showed me a bar of lead twisted up into a knot, and said she was agood shot with it generly, but she’d wrenched her arm a day or two ago,and didn’t know whether she could throw true now. But she watched for achance, and directly banged away at a rat; but she missed him wide, andsaid, “Ouch!” it hurt her arm so. Then she told me to try for the nextone. I wanted to be getting away before the old man got back, but ofcourse I didn’t let on. I got the thing, and the first rat that showedhis nose I let drive, and if he’d ’a’ stayed where he was he’d ’a’ beena tolerable sick rat. She said that was first-rate, and she reckoned Iwould hive the next one. She went and got the lump of lead and fetchedit back, and brought along a hank of yarn which she wanted me to helpher with. I held up my two hands and she put the hank over them, andwent on talking about her and her husband’s matters. But she broke offto say:“Keep your eye on the rats. You better have the lead in your lap,handy.”So she dropped the lump into my lap just at that moment, and I clappedmy legs together on it and she went on talking. But only about aminute. Then she took off the hank and looked me straight in the face,and very pleasant, and says:“Come, now, what’s your real name?”“Wh-hat, mum?”“What’s your real name? Is it Bill, or Tom, or Bob?—or what is it?”I reckon I shook like a leaf, and I didn’t know hardly what to do. ButI says:“Please to don’t poke fun at a poor girl like me, mum. If I’m in theway here, I’ll—”“No, you won’t. Set down and stay where you are. I ain’t going tohurt you, and I ain’t going to tell on you, nuther. You just tell meyour secret, and trust me. I’ll keep it; and, what’s more, I’ll helpyou. So’ll my old man if you want him to. You see, you’re a runaway’prentice, that’s all. It ain’t anything. There ain’t no harm in it.You’ve been treated bad, and you made up your mind to cut. Bless you,child, I wouldn’t tell on you. Tell me all about it now, that’s a goodboy.”So I said it wouldn’t be no use to try to play it any longer, and Iwould just make a clean breast and tell her everything, but she mustn’tgo back on her promise. Then I told her my father and mother was dead,and the law had bound me out to a mean old farmer in the country thirtymile back from the river, and he treated me so bad I couldn’t stand itno longer; he went away to be gone a couple of days, and so I took mychance and stole some of his daughter’s old clothes and cleared out,and I had been three nights coming the thirty miles. I traveled nights,and hid daytimes and slept, and the bag of bread and meat I carriedfrom home lasted me all the way, and I had a-plenty. I said I believedmy uncle Abner Moore would take care of me, and so that was why Istruck out for this town of Goshen.“Goshen, child? This ain’t Goshen. This is St. Petersburg. Goshen’s tenmile further up the river. Who told you this was Goshen?”“Why, a man I met at daybreak this morning, just as I was going to turninto the woods for my regular sleep. He told me when the roads forked Imust take the right hand, and five mile would fetch me to Goshen.”“He was drunk, I reckon. He told you just exactly wrong.”“Well, he did act like he was drunk, but it ain’t no matter now. I gotto be moving along. I’ll fetch Goshen before daylight.”“Hold on a minute. I’ll put you up a snack to eat. You might want it.”So she put me up a snack, and says:“Say, when a cow’s laying down, which end of her gets up first? Answerup prompt now—don’t stop to study over it. Which end gets up first?”“The hind end, mum.”“Well, then, a horse?”“The for’rard end, mum.”“Which side of a tree does the moss grow on?”“North side.”“If fifteen cows is browsing on a hillside, how many of them eats withtheir heads pointed the same direction?”“The whole fifteen, mum.”“Well, I reckon you _have_ lived in the country. I thought maybe youwas trying to hocus me again. What’s your real name, now?”“George Peters, mum.”“Well, try to remember it, George. Don’t forget and tell me it’sElexander before you go, and then get out by saying it’s GeorgeElexander when I catch you. And don’t go about women in that oldcalico. You do a girl tolerable poor, but you might fool men, maybe.Bless you, child, when you set out to thread a needle don’t hold thethread still and fetch the needle up to it; hold the needle still andpoke the thread at it; that’s the way a woman most always does, but aman always does t’other way. And when you throw at a rat or anything,hitch yourself up a-tiptoe and fetch your hand up over your head asawkward as you can, and miss your rat about six or seven foot. Throwstiff-armed from the shoulder, like there was a pivot there for itto turn on, like a girl; not from the wrist and elbow, with your armout to one side, like a boy. And, mind you, when a girl tries tocatch anything in her lap she throws her knees apart; she don’t clapthem together, the way you did when you catched the lump of lead.Why, I spotted you for a boy when you was threading the needle; and Icontrived the other things just to make certain. Now trot along to youruncle, Sarah Mary Williams George Elexander Peters, and if you get intotrouble you send word to Mrs. Judith Loftus, which is me, and I’ll dowhat I can to get you out of it. Keep the river road all the way, andnext time you tramp take shoes and socks with you. The river road’s arocky one, and your feet ’ll be in a condition when you get to Goshen,I reckon.”I went up the bank about fifty yards, and then I doubled on my tracksand slipped back to where my canoe was, a good piece below the house.I jumped in, and was off in a hurry. I went up-stream far enough tomake the head of the island, and then started across. I took off thesun-bonnet, for I didn’t want no blinders on then. When I was about themiddle I heard the clock begin to strike, so I stops and listens; thesound come faint over the water but clear—eleven. When I struck thehead of the island I never waited to blow, though I was most winded,but I shoved right into the timber where my old camp used to be, andstarted a good fire there on a high and dry spot.Then I jumped in the canoe and dug out for our place, a mile and a halfbelow, as hard as I could go. I landed, and slopped through the timberand up the ridge and into the cavern. There Jim laid, sound asleep onthe ground. I roused him out and says:“Git up and hump yourself, Jim! There ain’t a minute to lose. They’reafter us!”Jim never asked no questions, he never said a word; but the way heworked for the next half an hour showed about how he was scared. Bythat time everything we had in the world was on our raft, and she wasready to be shoved out from the willow cove where she was hid. We putout the camp-fire at the cavern the first thing, and didn’t show acandle outside after that.I took the canoe out from the shore a little piece, and took a look;but if there was a boat around I couldn’t see it, for stars and shadowsain’t good to see by. Then we got out the raft and slipped along downin the shade, past the foot of the island dead still—never saying aword.CHAPTER XIIIt must ’a’ been close on to one o’clock when we got below the islandat last, and the raft did seem to go mighty slow. If a boat was to comealong we was going to take to the canoe and break for the Illinoisshore; and it was well a boat didn’t come, for we hadn’t ever thoughtto put the gun in the canoe, or a fishing-line, or anything to eat. Wewas in ruther too much of a sweat to think of so many things. It warn’tgood judgment to put _everything_ on the raft.If the men went to the island I just expect they found the camp-fire Ibuilt, and watched it all night for Jim to come. Anyways, they stayedaway from us, and if my building the fire never fooled them it warn’tno fault of mine. I played it as low down on them as I could.When the first streak of day began to show we tied up to a towhead in abig bend on the Illinois side, and hacked off cottonwood branches withthe hatchet, and covered up the raft with them so she looked like therehad been a cave-in in the bank there. A towhead is a sand-bar that hascottonwoods on it as thick as harrow-teeth.We had mountains on the Missouri shore and heavy timber on the Illinoisside, and the channel was down the Missouri shore at that place, sowe warn’t afraid of anybody running across us. We laid there all day,and watched the rafts and steamboats spin down the Missouri shore, andup-bound steamboats fight the big river in the middle. I told Jim allabout the time I had jabbering with that woman; and Jim said she wasa smart one, and if she was to start after us herself _she_ wouldn’tset down and watch a camp-fire—no, sir, she’d fetch a dog. Well, then,I said, why couldn’t she tell her husband to fetch a dog? Jim said hebet she did think of it by the time the men was ready to start, andhe believed they must ’a’ gone up-town to get a dog and so they lostall that time, or else we wouldn’t be here on a towhead sixteen orseventeen mile below the village—no, indeedy, we would be in that sameold town again. So I said I didn’t care what was the reason they didn’tget us as long as they didn’t.When it was beginning to come on dark we poked our heads out of thecottonwood thicket, and looked up and down and across; nothing insight; so Jim took up some of the top planks of the raft and built asnug wigwam to get under in blazing weather and rainy, and to keep thethings dry. Jim made a floor for the wigwam, and raised it a foot ormore above the level of the raft, so now the blankets and all the trapswas out of reach of steamboat waves. Right in the middle of the wigwamwe made a layer of dirt about five or six inches deep with a framearound it for to hold it to its place; this was to build a fire on insloppy weather or chilly; the wigwam would keep it from being seen. Wemade an extra steering-oar, too, because one of the others might getbroke on a snag or something. We fixed up a short forked stick to hangthe old lantern on, because we must always light the lantern wheneverwe see a steamboat coming down-stream, to keep from getting run over;but we wouldn’t have to light it for up-stream boats unless we see wewas in what they call a “crossing”; for the river was pretty high yet,very low banks being still a little under water; so up-bound boatsdidn’t always run the channel, but hunted easy water.This second night we run between seven and eight hours, with a currentthat was making over four mile an hour. We catched fish and talked,and we took a swim now and then to keep off sleepiness. It was kind ofsolemn, drifting down the big, still river, laying on our backs lookingup at the stars, and we didn’t ever feel like talking loud, and itwarn’t often that we laughed—only a little kind of a low chuckle. Wehad mighty good weather as a general thing, and nothing ever happenedto us at all—that night, nor the next, nor the next.Every night we passed towns, some of them away up on black hillsides,nothing but just a shiny bed of lights; not a house could you see.The fifth night we passed St. Louis, and it was like the whole worldlit up. In St. Petersburg they used to say there was twenty or thirtythousand people in St. Louis, but I never believed it till I see thatwonderful spread of lights at two o’clock that still night. Therewarn’t a sound there; everybody was asleep.Every night now I used to slip ashore toward ten o’clock at some littlevillage, and buy ten or fifteen cents’ worth of meal or bacon or otherstuff to eat; and sometimes I lifted a chicken that warn’t roostingcomfortable, and took him along. Pap always said, take a chicken whenyou get a chance, because if you don’t want him yourself you can easyfind somebody that does, and a good deed ain’t ever forgot. I never seepap when he didn’t want the chicken himself, but that is what he usedto say, anyway.Mornings before daylight I slipped into corn-fields and borrowed awatermelon, or a mushmelon, or a punkin, or some new corn, or things ofthat kind. Pap always said it warn’t no harm to borrow things if youwas meaning to pay them back some time; but the widow said it warn’tanything but a soft name for stealing, and no decent body would do it.Jim said he reckoned the widow was partly right and pap was partlyright; so the best way would be for us to pick out two or three thingsfrom the list and say we wouldn’t borrow them any more—then he reckonedit wouldn’t be no harm to borrow the others. So we talked it over allone night, drifting along down the river, trying to make up our mindswhether to drop the watermelons, or the cantelopes, or the mushmelons,or what. But toward daylight we got it all settled satisfactory, andconcluded to drop crabapples and p’simmons. We warn’t feeling justright before that, but it was all comfortable now. I was glad the wayit come out, too, because crabapples ain’t ever good, and the p’simmonswouldn’t be ripe for two or three months yet.We shot a water-fowl now and then that got up too early in the morningor didn’t go to bed early enough in the evening. Take it all round, welived pretty high.The fifth night below St. Louis we had a big storm after midnight, witha power of thunder and lightning, and the rain poured down in a solidsheet. We stayed in the wigwam and let the raft take care of itself.When the lightning glared out we could see a big straight river ahead,and high, rocky bluffs on both sides. By and by says I, “Hel-_lo_,Jim, looky yonder!” It was a steamboat that had killed herself on arock. We was drifting straight down for her. The lightning showed hervery distinct. She was leaning over, with part of her upper deck abovewater, and you could see every little chimbly-guy clean and clear, anda chair by the big bell, with an old slouch hat hanging on the back ofit, when the flashes come.Well, it being away in the night and stormy, and all somysterious-like, I felt just the way any other boy would ’a’ felt whenI seen that wreck laying there so mournful and lonesome in the middleof the river. I wanted to get aboard of her and slink around a little,and see what there was there. So I says:“Le’s land on her, Jim.”But Jim was dead against it at first. He says:“I doan’ want to go fool’n’ ’long er no wrack. We’s doin’ blame’ well,en we better let blame’ well alone, as de good book says. Like as notdey’s a watchman on dat wrack.”“Watchman your grandmother,” I says; “there ain’t nothing to watch butthe texas and the pilot-house; and do you reckon anybody’s going toresk his life for a texas and a pilot-house such a night as this, whenit’s likely to break up and wash off down the river any minute?” Jimcouldn’t say nothing to that, so he didn’t try. “And besides,” I says,“we might borrow something worth having out of the captain’s stateroom.Seegars, _I_ bet you—and cost five cents apiece, solid cash. Steamboatcaptains is always rich, and get sixty dollars a month, and _they_don’t care a cent what a thing costs, you know, long as they want it.Stick a candle in your pocket; I can’t rest, Jim, till we give her arummaging. Do you reckon Tom Sawyer would ever go by this thing? Notfor pie, he wouldn’t. He’d call it an adventure—that’s what he’d callit; and he’d land on that wreck if it was his last act. And wouldn’the throw style into it?—wouldn’t he spread himself, nor nothing? Why,you’d think it was Christopher C’lumbus discovering Kingdom Come. Iwish Tom Sawyer _was_ here.”Jim he grumbled a little, but give in. He said we mustn’t talk any morethan we could help, and then talk mighty low. The lightning showed usthe wreck again just in time, and we fetched the stabboard derrick, andmade fast there.The deck was high out here. We went sneaking down the slope of it tolabboard, in the dark, towards the texas, feeling our way slow with ourfeet, and spreading our hands out to fend off the guys, for it was sodark we couldn’t see no sign of them. Pretty soon we struck the forwardend of the skylight, and clumb on to it; and the next step fetched usin front of the captain’s door, which was open, and by Jimminy, awaydown through the texas-hall we see a light! and all in the same secondwe seem to hear low voices in yonder!Jim whispered and said he was feeling powerful sick, and told me tocome along. I says, all right, and was going to start for the raft; butjust then I heard a voice wail out and say:“Oh, please don’t, boys; I swear I won’t ever tell!”Another voice said, pretty loud:“It’s a lie, Jim Turner. You’ve acted this way before. You always wantmore’n your share of the truck, and you’ve always got it, too, becauseyou’ve swore ’t if you didn’t you’d tell. But this time you’ve said itjest one time too many. You’re the meanest, treacherousest hound inthis country.”By this time Jim was gone for the raft. I was just a-biling withcuriosity; and I says to myself, Tom Sawyer wouldn’t back out now,and so I won’t either; I’m a-going to see what’s going on here. So Idropped on my hands and knees in the little passage, and crept aftin the dark till there warn’t but one stateroom betwixt me and thecross-hall of the texas. Then in there I see a man stretched on thefloor and tied hand and foot, and two men standing over him, and oneof them had a dim lantern in his hand, and the other one had a pistol.This one kept pointing the pistol at the man’s head on the floor, andsaying:“I’d _like_ to! And I orter, too—a mean skunk!”The man on the floor would shrivel up and say, “Oh, please don’t, Bill;I hain’t ever goin’ to tell.”And every time he said that the man with the lantern would laugh andsay:“’Deed you _ain’t!_ You never said no truer thing ’n that, you betyou.” And once he said: “Hear him beg! and yit if we hadn’t got thebest of him and tied him he’d ’a’ killed us both. And what _for_? Jistfor noth’n’. Jist because we stood on our _rights_—that’s what for. ButI lay you ain’t a-goin’ to threaten nobody any more, Jim Turner. Put_up_ that pistol, Bill.”Bill says:“I don’t want to, Jake Packard. I’m for killin’ him—and didn’t he killold Hatfield jist the same way—and don’t he deserve it?”“But I don’t _want_ him killed, and I’ve got my reasons for it.”“Bless yo’ heart for them words, Jake Packard! I’ll never forgit youlong’s I live!” says the man on the floor, sort of blubbering.Packard didn’t take no notice of that, but hung up his lantern on anail and started toward where I was, there in the dark, and motionedBill to come. I crawfished as fast as I could about two yards, but theboat slanted so that I couldn’t make very good time; so to keep fromgetting run over and catched I crawled into a stateroom on the upperside. The man came a-pawing along in the dark, and when Packard got tomy stateroom, he says:“Here—come in here.”And in he come, and Bill after him. But before they got in I was up inthe upper berth, cornered, and sorry I come. Then they stood there,with their hands on the ledge of the berth, and talked. I couldn’t seethem, but I could tell where they was by the whisky they’d been having.I was glad I didn’t drink whisky; but it wouldn’t made much differenceanyway, because most of the time they couldn’t ’a’ treed me becauseI didn’t breathe. I was too scared. And, besides, a body _couldn’t_breathe and hear such talk. They talked low and earnest. Bill wanted tokill Turner. He says:“He’s said he’ll tell, and he will. If we was to give both our sharesto him _now_ it wouldn’t make no difference after the row and the waywe’ve served him. Shore’s you’re born, he’ll turn state’s evidence; nowyou hear _me._ I’m for putting him out of his troubles.”“So’m I,” says Packard, very quiet.“Blame it, I’d sorter begun to think you wasn’t. Well, then, that’s allright. Le’s go and do it.”“Hold on a minute; I hain’t had my say yit. You listen to me.Shooting’s good, but there’s quieter ways if the things _got_ to bedone. But what _I_ say is this: it ain’t good sense to go court’n’around after a halter if you can git at what you’re up to in some waythat’s jist as good and at the same time don’t bring you into no resks.Ain’t that so?”“You bet it is. But how you goin’ to manage it this time?”“Well, my idea is this: we’ll rustle around and gather up whateverpickin’s we’ve overlooked in the staterooms, and shove for shore andhide the truck. Then we’ll wait. Now I say it ain’t a-goin’ to bemore’n two hours befo’ this wrack breaks up and washes off down theriver. See? He’ll be drownded, and won’t have nobody to blame forit but his own self. I reckon that’s a considerable sight better ’nkillin’ of him. I’m unfavorable to killin’ a man as long as you can gitaroun’ it; it ain’t good sense, it ain’t good morals. Ain’t I right?”“Yes, I reck’n you are. But s’pose she _don’t_ break up and wash off?”“Well, we can wait the two hours anyway and see, can’t we?”“All right, then; come along.”So they started, and I lit out, all in a cold sweat, and scrambledforward. It was dark as pitch there; but I said, in a kind of a coarsewhisper, “Jim!” and he answered up, right at my elbow, with a sort of amoan, and I says:“Quick, Jim, it ain’t no time for fooling around and moaning; there’s agang of murderers in yonder, and if we don’t hunt up their boat and sether drifting down the river so these fellows can’t get away from thewreck there’s one of ’em going to be in a bad fix. But if we find theirboat we can put _all_ of ’em in a bad fix—for the sheriff ’ll get ’em.Quick—hurry! I’ll hunt the labboard side, you hunt the stabboard. Youstart at the raft, and—”“Oh, my lordy, lordy! _Raf’?_ Dey ain’ no raf’ no mo’; she done brokeloose en gone!—en here we is!”CHAPTER XIIIWell, I catched my breath and most fainted. Shut up on a wreck withsuch a gang as that! But it warn’t no time to be sentimentering. We’d_got_ to find that boat now—had to have it for ourselves. So we wenta-quaking and shaking down the stabboard side, and slow work it was,too—seemed a week before we got to the stern. No sign of a boat. Jimsaid he didn’t believe he could go any farther—so scared he hadn’thardly any strength left, he said. But I said, come on, if we get lefton this wreck we are in a fix, sure. So on we prowled again. We struckfor the stern of the texas, and found it, and then scrabbled alongforwards on the skylight, hanging on from shutter to shutter, for theedge of the skylight was in the water. When we got pretty close to thecross-hall door there was the skiff, sure enough! I could just barelysee her. I felt ever so thankful. In another second I would ’a’ beenaboard of her, but just then the door opened. One of the men stuck hishead out only about a couple of foot from me, and I thought I was gone;but he jerked it in again, and says:“Heave that blame lantern out o’ sight, Bill!”He flung a bag of something into the boat, and then got in himself andset down. It was Packard. Then Bill _he_ come out and got in. Packardsays, in a low voice:“All ready—shove off!”I couldn’t hardly hang on to the shutters, I was so weak. But Bill says:“Hold on—’d you go through him?”“No. Didn’t you?”“No. So he’s got his share o’ the cash yet.”“Well, then, come along; no use to take truck and leave money.”“Say, won’t he suspicion what we’re up to?”“Maybe he won’t. But we got to have it anyway. Come along.”So they got out and went in.The door slammed to because it was on the careened side; and in a halfsecond I was in the boat, and Jim come tumbling after me. I out with myknife and cut the rope, and away we went!We didn’t touch an oar, and we didn’t speak nor whisper, nor hardlyeven breathe. We went gliding swift along, dead silent, past the tip ofthe paddle-box, and past the stern; then in a second or two more we wasa hundred yards below the wreck, and the darkness soaked her up, everylast sign of her, and we was safe, and knowed it.When we was three or four hundred yards down-stream we see the lanternshow like a little spark at the texas door for a second, and we knowedby that that the rascals had missed their boat, and was beginning tounderstand that they was in just as much trouble now as Jim Turner was.Then Jim manned the oars, and we took out after our raft. Now wasthe first time that I begun to worry about the men—I reckon I hadn’thad time to before. I begun to think how dreadful it was, even formurderers, to be in such a fix. I says to myself, there ain’t notelling but I might come to be a murderer myself yet, and then howwould I like it? So says I to Jim:“The first light we see we’ll land a hundred yards below it or aboveit, in a place where it’s a good hiding-place for you and the skiff,and then I’ll go and fix up some kind of a yarn, and get somebody togo for that gang and get them out of their scrape, so they can be hungwhen their time comes.”But that idea was a failure; for pretty soon it begun to storm again,and this time worse than ever. The rain poured down, and never a lightshowed; everybody in bed, I reckon. We boomed along down the river,watching for lights and watching for our raft. After a long time therain let up, but the clouds stayed, and the lightning kept whimpering,and by and by a flash showed us a black thing ahead, floating, and wemade for it.It was the raft, and mighty glad was we to get aboard of it again. Weseen a light now away down to the right, on shore. So I said I wouldgo for it. The skiff was half full of plunder which that gang hadstole there on the wreck. We hustled it on to the raft in a pile, andI told Jim to float along down, and show a light when he judged he hadgone about two mile, and keep it burning till I come; then I manned myoars and shoved for the light. As I got down towards it three or fourmore showed—up on a hillside. It was a village. I closed in above theshore light, and laid on my oars and floated. As I went by I see itwas a lantern hanging on the jackstaff of a double-hull ferryboat. Iskimmed around for the watchman, a-wondering whereabouts he slept; andby and by I found him roosting on the bitts forward, with his head downbetween his knees. I gave his shoulder two or three little shoves, andbegun to cry.He stirred up in a kind of a startlish way; but when he see it was onlyme he took a good gap and stretch, and then he says:“Hello, what’s up? Don’t cry, bub. What’s the trouble?”I says:“Pap, and mam, and sis, and—”Then I broke down. He says:“Oh, dang it now, _don’t_ take on so; we all has to have our troubles,and this ’n ’ll come out all right. What’s the matter with ’em?”“They’re—they’re—are you the watchman of the boat?”“Yes,” he says, kind of pretty-well-satisfied like. “I’m the captainand the owner and the mate and the pilot and watchman and headdeck-hand; and sometimes I’m the freight and passengers. I ain’t asrich as old Jim Hornback, and I can’t be so blame’ generous and good toTom, Dick, and Harry as what he is, and slam around money the way hedoes; but I’ve told him a many a time ’t I wouldn’t trade places withhim; for, says I, a sailor’s life’s the life for me, and I’m derned if_I’d_ live two mile out o’ town, where there ain’t nothing ever goin’on, not for all his spondulicks and as much more on top of it. Says I—”I broke in and says:“They’re in an awful peck of trouble, and—”“_Who_ is?”“Why, pap and mam and sis and Miss Hooker; and if you’d take yourferryboat and go up there—”“Up where? Where are they?”“On the wreck.”“What wreck?”“Why, there ain’t but one.”“What, you don’t mean the _Walter Scott?_”“Yes.”“Good land! what are they doin’ _there_, for gracious sakes?”“Well, they didn’t go there a-purpose.”“I bet they didn’t! Why, great goodness, there ain’t no chance for ’emif they don’t git off mighty quick! Why, how in the nation did theyever git into such a scrape?”“Easy enough. Miss Hooker was a-visiting up there to the town—”“Yes, Booth’s Landing—go on.”“She was a-visiting there at Booth’s Landing, and just in the edge ofthe evening she started over with her nigger woman in the horse-ferryto stay all night at her friend’s house, Miss What-you-may-call-her—Idisremember her name—and they lost their steering-oar, and swungaround and went a-floating down, stern first, about two mile, andsaddle-baggsed on the wreck, and the ferryman and the nigger woman andthe horses was all lost, but Miss Hooker she made a grab and got aboardthe wreck. Well, about an hour after dark we come along down in ourtrading-scow, and it was so dark we didn’t notice the wreck till we wasright on it; and so _we_ saddle-baggsed; but all of us was saved butBill Whipple—and oh, he _was_ the best cretur!—I most wish ’t it hadbeen me, I do.”“My George! It’s the beatenest thing I ever struck. And _then_ what didyou all do?”“Well, we hollered and took on, but it’s so wide there we couldn’tmake nobody hear. So pap said somebody got to get ashore and get helpsomehow. I was the only one that could swim, so I made a dash for it,and Miss Hooker she said if I didn’t strike help sooner, come here andhunt up her uncle, and he’d fix the thing. I made the land about a milebelow, and been fooling along ever since, trying to get people to dosomething, but they said, ’What, in such a night and such a current?There ain’t no sense in it; go for the steam-ferry.’ Now if you’ll goand—”“By Jackson, I’d _like_ to, and, blame it, I don’t know but I will; butwho in the dingnation’s a-going to _pay_ for it? Do you reckon yourpap—”“Why _that’s_ all right. Miss Hooker she tole me, _particular_, thather uncle Hornback—”“Great guns! is _he_ her uncle? Looky here, you break for that lightover yonder-way, and turn out west when you git there, and about aquarter of a mile out you’ll come to the tavern; tell ’em to dart youout to Jim Hornback’s, and he’ll foot the bill. And don’t you foolaround any, because he’ll want to know the news. Tell him I’ll havehis niece all safe before he can get to town. Hump yourself, now; I’ma-going up around the corner here to roust out my engineer.”I struck for the light, but as soon as he turned the corner I went backand got into my skiff and bailed her out, and then pulled up shore inthe easy water about six hundred yards, and tucked myself in among somewood-boats; for I couldn’t rest easy till I could see the ferryboatstart. But take it all around, I was feeling ruther comfortable onaccounts of taking all this trouble for that gang, for not many would’a’ done it. I wished the widow knowed about it. I judged she wouldbe proud of me for helping these rapscallions, because rapscallionsand dead-beats is the kind the widow and good people takes the mostinterest in.Well, before long here comes the wreck, dim and dusky, sliding alongdown! A kind of cold shiver went through me, and then I struck out forher. She was very deep, and I see in a minute there warn’t much chancefor anybody being alive in her. I pulled all around her and hollered alittle, but there wasn’t any answer; all dead still. I felt a littlebit heavy-hearted about the gang, but not much, for I reckoned if theycould stand it I could.Then here comes the ferryboat; so I shoved for the middle of the riveron a long down-stream slant; and when I judged I was out of eye-reachI laid on my oars, and looked back and see her go and smell around thewreck for Miss Hooker’s remainders, because the captain would know heruncle Hornback would want them; and then pretty soon the ferryboatgive it up and went for the shore, and I laid into my work and wenta-booming down the river.It did seem a powerful long time before Jim’s light showed up; and whenit did show it looked like it was a thousand mile off. By the time Igot there the sky was beginning to get a little gray in the east; so westruck for an island, and hid the raft, and sunk the skiff, and turnedin and slept like dead people.CHAPTER XIVBy and by, when we got up, we turned over the truck the gang had stoleoff of the wreck, and found boots, and blankets, and clothes, and allsorts of other things, and a lot of books, and a spy-glass, and threeboxes of seegars. We hadn’t ever been this rich before in neither ofour lives. The seegars was prime. We laid off all the afternoon in thewoods talking, and me reading the books, and having a general goodtime. I told Jim all about what happened inside the wreck and at theferryboat, and I said these kinds of things was adventures; but hesaid he didn’t want no more adventures. He said that when I went inthe texas and he crawled back to get on the raft and found her gone henearly died, because he judged it was all up with _him_ anyway it couldbe fixed; for if he didn’t get saved he would get drownded; and if hedid get saved, whoever saved him would send him back home so as to getthe reward, and then Miss Watson would sell him South, sure. Well, hewas right; he was most always right; he had an uncommon level head fora nigger.I read considerable to Jim about kings and dukes and earls and such,and how gaudy they dressed, and how much style they put on, and calledeach other and so on, ’stead of mister; and Jim’s eyes bugged out, andhe was interested. He says:“I didn’ know dey was so many un um. I hain’t hearn ’bout none un um,skasely, but ole King Sollermun, onless you counts dem kings dat’s in apack er k’yards. How much do a king git?”“Get?” I says; “why, they get a thousand dollars a month if they wantit; they can have just as much as they want; everything belongs tothem.”“_Ain’_ dat gay? En what dey got to do, Huck?”“_They_ don’t do nothing! Why, how you talk! They just set around.”“No; is dat so?”“Of course it is. They just set around—except, maybe, when there’s awar; then they go to the war. But other times they just lazy around; orgo hawking—just hawking and sp— Sh!—d’you hear a noise?”We skipped out and looked; but it warn’t nothing but the flutter of asteamboat’s wheel away down, coming around the point; so we come back.“Yes,” says I, “and other times, when things is dull, they fuss withthe parlyment; and if everybody don’t go just so he whacks their headsoff. But mostly they hang round the harem.”“Roun’ de which?”“Harem.”“What’s de harem?”“The place where he keeps his wives. Don’t you know about the harem?Solomon had one; he had about a million wives.”“Why, yes, dat’s so; I—I’d done forgot it. A harem’s a bo’d’n-house, Ireck’n. Mos’ likely dey has rackety times in de nussery. En I reck’nde wives quarrels considable; en dat ’crease de racket. Yit dey saySollermun de wises’ man dat ever live’. I doan’ take no stock indat. Bekase why: would a wise man want to live in de mids’ er sich ablim-blammin’ all de time? No—’deed he wouldn’t. A wise man ’ud take enbuil’ a biler-factry; en den he could shet _down_ de biler-factry whenhe want to res’.”“Well, but he _was_ the wisest man, anyway; because the widow she toldme so, her own self.”“I doan’ k’yer what de widder say, he _warn’t_ no wise man nuther. Hehad some er de dad-fetchedes’ ways I ever see. Does you know ’bout datchile dat he ’uz gwyne to chop in two?”“Yes, the widow told me all about it.”“_Well_, den! Warn’ dat de beatenes’ notion in de worl’? You jes’ takeen look at it a minute. Dah’s de stump, dah—dat’s one er de women;heah’s you—dat’s de yuther one; I’s Sollermun; en dish yer dollarbill’s de chile. Bofe un you claims it. What does I do? Does I shinaroun’ mongs’ de neighbors en fine out which un you de bill _do_ b’longto, en han’ it over to de right one, all safe en soun’, de way datanybody dat had any gumption would? No; I take en whack de bill in_two_, en give half un it to you, en de yuther half to de yuther woman.Dat’s de way Sollermun was gwyne to do wid de chile. Now I want to astyou: what’s de use er dat half a bill?—can’t buy noth’n wid it. En whatuse is a half a chile? I wouldn’ give a dern for a million un um.”“But hang it, Jim, you’ve clean missed the point—blame it, you’vemissed it a thousand mile.”“Who? Me? Go ’long. Doan’ talk to _me_ ’bout yo’ pints. I reck’n Iknows sense when I sees it; en dey ain’ no sense in sich doin’s as dat.De ’spute warn’t ’bout a half a chile, de ’spute was ’bout a wholechile; en de man dat think he kin settle a ’spute ’bout a whole chilewid a half a chile doan’ know enough to come in out’n de rain. Doan’talk to me ’bout Sollermun, Huck, I knows him by de back.”“But I tell you you don’t get the point.”“Blame de point! I reck’n I knows what I knows. En mine you, de _real_pint furder—it’s down deeper. It lays in de way Sollermun was raised.You take a man dat’s got on’y one or two chillen; is dat man gwyne tobe waseful o’ chillen? No, he ain’t; he can’t ’ford it. _He_ know howto value ’em. But you take a man dat’s got ’bout five million chillenrunnin’ roun’ de house, en it’s diffunt. _He_ as soon chop a chile intwo as a cat. Dey’s plenty mo’. A chile er two, mo’ er less, warn’t noconsekens to Sollermun, dad fetch him!”I never see such a nigger. If he got a notion in his head once, therewarn’t no getting it out again. He was the most down on Solomon of anynigger I ever see. So I went to talking about other kings, and letSolomon slide. I told about Louis Sixteenth that got his head cut offin France long time ago; and about his little boy the dolphin, thatwould ’a’ been a king, but they took and shut him up in jail, and somesay he died there.“Po’ little chap.”“But some says he got out and got away, and come to America.”“Dat’s good! But he’ll be pooty lonesome—dey ain’ no kings here, isdey, Huck?”“No.”“Den he cain’t git no situation. What he gwyne to do?”“Well, I don’t know. Some of them gets on the police, and some of themlearns people how to talk French.”“Why, Huck, doan’ de French people talk de same way we does?”“_No_, Jim; you couldn’t understand a word they said—not a single word.”“Well, now, I be ding-busted! How do dat come?”“_I_ don’t know; but it’s so. I got some of their jabber out of a book.S’pose a man was to come to you and say Polly-voo-franzy—what would youthink?”“I wouldn’ think nuffn; I’d take en bust him over de head—dat is, if hewarn’t white. I wouldn’t ’low no nigger to call me dat.”“Shucks, it ain’t calling you anything. It’s only saying, do you knowhow to talk French?”“Well, den, why couldn’t he _say_ it?”“Why, he _is_ a-saying it. That’s a Frenchman’s _way_ of saying it.”“Well, it’s a blame ridicklous way, en I doan’ want to hear no mo’’bout it. Dey ain’ no sense in it.”“Looky here, Jim; does a cat talk like we do?”“No, a cat don’t.”“Well, does a cow?”“No, a cow don’t, nuther.”“Does a cat talk like a cow, or a cow talk like a cat?”“No, dey don’t.”“It’s natural and right for ’em to talk different from each other,ain’t it?”“Course.”“And ain’t it natural and right for a cat and a cow to talk differentfrom _us_?”“Why, mos’ sholy it is.”“Well, then, why ain’t it natural and right for a _Frenchman_ to talkdifferent from us? You answer me that.”“Is a cat a man, Huck?”“No.”“Well, den, dey ain’t no sense in a cat talkin’ like a man. Is a cow aman?—er is a cow a cat?”“No, she ain’t either of them.”“Well, den, she ain’t got no business to talk like either one er theyuther of ’em. Is a Frenchman a man?”“Yes.”“_Well_, den! Dad blame it, why doan’ he _talk_ like a man? You answerme _dat!_”I see it warn’t no use wasting words—you can’t learn a nigger to argue.So I quit.CHAPTER XVWe judged that three nights more would fetch us to Cairo, at the bottomof Illinois, where the Ohio River comes in, and that was what we wasafter. We would sell the raft and get on a steamboat and go way up theOhio amongst the free states, and then be out of trouble.Well, the second night a fog begun to come on, and we made for atowhead to tie to, for it wouldn’t do to try to run in a fog; butwhen I paddled ahead in the canoe, with the line to make fast, therewarn’t anything but little saplings to tie to. I passed the line aroundone of them right on the edge of the cut bank, but there was a stiffcurrent, and the raft come booming down so lively she tore it out bythe roots and away she went. I see the fog closing down, and it made meso sick and scared I couldn’t budge for most a half a minute it seemedto me—and then there warn’t no raft in sight; you couldn’t see twentyyards. I jumped into the canoe and run back to the stern, and grabbedthe paddle and set her back a stroke. But she didn’t come. I was insuch a hurry I hadn’t untied her. I got up and tried to untie her, butI was so excited my hands shook so I couldn’t hardly do anything withthem.As soon as I got started I took out after the raft, hot and heavy,right down the towhead. That was all right as far as it went, but thetowhead warn’t sixty yards long, and the minute I flew by the foot ofit I shot out into the solid white fog, and hadn’t no more idea whichway I was going than a dead man.Thinks I, it won’t do to paddle; first I know I’ll run into the bankor a towhead or something; I got to set still and float, and yet it’smighty fidgety business to have to hold your hands still at such atime. I whooped and listened. Away down there somewheres I hearsa small whoop, and up comes my spirits. I went tearing after it,listening sharp to hear it again. The next time it come I see I warn’theading for it, but heading away to the right of it. And the next timeI was heading away to the left of it—and not gaining on it much either,for I was flying around, this way and that and t’other, but it wasgoing straight ahead all the time.I did wish the fool would think to beat a tin pan, and beat it allthe time, but he never did, and it was the still places between thewhoops that was making the trouble for me. Well, I fought along, anddirectly I hears the whoop _behind_ me. I was tangled good now. Thatwas somebody else’s whoop, or else I was turned around.I throwed the paddle down. I heard the whoop again; it was behind meyet, but in a different place; it kept coming, and kept changing itsplace, and I kept answering, till by and by it was in front of meagain, and I knowed the current had swung the canoe’s head down-stream,and I was all right if that was Jim and not some other raftsmanhollering. I couldn’t tell nothing about voices in a fog, for nothingdon’t look natural nor sound natural in a fog.The whooping went on, and in about a minute I come a-booming down on acut bank with smoky ghosts of big trees on it, and the current throwedme off to the left and shot by, amongst a lot of snags that fairlyroared, the current was tearing by them so swift.In another second or two it was solid white and still again. I setperfectly still then, listening to my heart thump, and I reckon Ididn’t draw a breath while it thumped a hundred.I just give up then. I knowed what the matter was. That cut bank was anisland, and Jim had gone down t’other side of it. It warn’t no towheadthat you could float by in ten minutes. It had the big timber of aregular island; it might be five or six miles long and more than half amile wide.I kept quiet, with my ears cocked, about fifteen minutes, I reckon.I was floating along, of course, four or five miles an hour; but youdon’t ever think of that. No, you _feel_ like you are laying dead stillon the water; and if a little glimpse of a snag slips by you don’tthink to yourself how fast _you’re_ going, but you catch your breathand think, my! how that snag’s tearing along. If you think it ain’tdismal and lonesome out in a fog that way by yourself in the night, youtry it once—you’ll see.Next, for about a half an hour, I whoops now and then; at last I hearsthe answer a long ways off, and tries to follow it, but I couldn’tdo it, and directly I judged I’d got into a nest of towheads, for Ihad little dim glimpses of them on both sides of me—sometimes just anarrow channel between, and some that I couldn’t see I knowed was therebecause I’d hear the wash of the current against the old dead brush andtrash that hung over the banks. Well, I warn’t long loosing the whoopsdown amongst the towheads; and I only tried to chase them a littlewhile, anyway, because it was worse than chasing a Jack-o’-lantern. Younever knowed a sound dodge around so, and swap places so quick and somuch.I had to claw away from the bank pretty lively four or five times, tokeep from knocking the islands out of the river; and so I judged theraft must be butting into the bank every now and then, or else it wouldget further ahead and clear out of hearing—it was floating a littlefaster than what I was.Well, I seemed to be in the open river again by and by, but I couldn’thear no sign of a whoop nowheres. I reckoned Jim had fetched up on asnag, maybe, and it was all up with him. I was good and tired, so Ilaid down in the canoe and said I wouldn’t bother no more. I didn’twant to go to sleep, of course; but I was so sleepy I couldn’t help it;so I thought I would take jest one little cat-nap.But I reckon it was more than a cat-nap, for when I waked up the starswas shining bright, the fog was all gone, and I was spinning down abig bend stern first. First I didn’t know where I was; I thought I wasdreaming; and when things began to come back to me they seemed to comeup dim out of last week.It was a monstrous big river here, with the tallest and the thickestkind of timber on both banks; just a solid wall, as well as I could seeby the stars. I looked away down-stream, and seen a black speck on thewater. I took after it; but when I got to it it warn’t nothing but acouple of saw-logs made fast together. Then I see another speck, andchased that; then another, and this time I was right. It was the raft.When I got to it Jim was setting there with his head down between hisknees, asleep, with his right arm hanging over the steering-oar. Theother oar was smashed off, and the raft was littered up with leaves andbranches and dirt. So she’d had a rough time.I made fast and laid down under Jim’s nose on the raft, and began togap, and stretch my fists out against Jim, and says:“Hello, Jim, have I been asleep? Why didn’t you stir me up?”“Goodness gracious, is dat you, Huck? En you ain’ dead—you ain’drownded—you’s back ag’in? It’s too good for true, honey, it’s too goodfor true. Lemme look at you chile, lemme feel o’ you. No, you ain’dead! you’s back ag’in, ’live en soun’, jis de same ole Huck—de sameole Huck, thanks to goodness!”“What’s the matter with you, Jim? You been a-drinking?”“Drinkin’? Has I ben a-drinkin’? Has I had a chance to be a-drinkin’?”“Well, then, what makes you talk so wild?”“How does I talk wild?”“_How?_ Why, hain’t you been talking about my coming back, and all thatstuff, as if I’d been gone away?”“Huck—Huck Finn, you look me in de eye; look me in de eye. _Hain’t_ youben gone away?”“Gone away? Why, what in the nation do you mean? _I_ hain’t been goneanywheres. Where would I go to?”“Well, looky here, boss, dey’s sumfn wrong, dey is. Is I _me_, or who_is_ I? Is I heah, or whah _is_ I? Now dat’s what I wants to know.”“Well, I think you’re here, plain enough, but I think you’re atangle-headed old fool, Jim.”“I is, is I? Well, you answer me dis: Didn’t you tote out de line in decanoe fer to make fas’ to de towhead?”“No, I didn’t. What towhead? I hain’t seen no towhead.”“You hain’t seen no towhead? Looky here, didn’t de line pull loose ende raf’ go a-hummin’ down de river, en leave you en de canoe behine inde fog?”“What fog?”“Why, _de_ fog!—de fog dat’s been aroun’ all night. En didn’t youwhoop, en didn’t I whoop, tell we got mix’ up in de islands en one unus got los’ en t’other one was jis’ as good as los’, ’kase he didn’know whah he wuz? En didn’t I bust up agin a lot er dem islands en havea turrible time en mos’ git drownded? Now ain’ dat so, boss—ain’t itso? You answer me dat.”“Well, this is too many for me, Jim. I hain’t seen no fog, nor noislands, nor no troubles, nor nothing. I been setting here talkingwith you all night till you went to sleep about ten minutes ago, and Ireckon I done the same. You couldn’t ’a’ got drunk in that time, so ofcourse you’ve been dreaming.”“Dad fetch it, how is I gwyne to dream all dat in ten minutes?”“Well, hang it all, you did dream it, because there didn’t any of ithappen.”“But, Huck, it’s all jis’ as plain to me as—”“It don’t make no difference how plain it is; there ain’t nothing init. I know, because I’ve been here all the time.”Jim didn’t say nothing for about five minutes, but set there studyingover it. Then he says:“Well, den, I reck’n I did dream it, Huck; but dog my cats ef it ain’tde powerfulest dream I ever see. En I hain’t ever had no dream b’fo’dat’s tired me like dis one.”“Oh, well, that’s all right, because a dream does tire a body likeeverything sometimes. But this one was a staving dream; tell me allabout it, Jim.”So Jim went to work and told me the whole thing right through, just asit happened, only he painted it up considerable. Then he said he muststart in and “’terpret” it, because it was sent for a warning. He saidthe first towhead stood for a man that would try to do us some good,but the current was another man that would get us away from him. Thewhoops was warnings that would come to us every now and then, and ifwe didn’t try hard to make out to understand them they’d just take usinto bad luck, ’stead of keeping us out of it. The lot of towheads wastroubles we was going to get into with quarrelsome people and all kindsof mean folks, but if we minded our business and didn’t talk back andaggravate them, we would pull through and get out of the fog and intothe big clear river, which was the free states, and wouldn’t have nomore trouble.It had clouded up pretty dark just after I got on to the raft, but itwas clearing up again now.“Oh, well, that’s all interpreted well enough as far as it goes, Jim,”I says; “but what does _these_ things stand for?”It was the leaves and rubbish on the raft and the smashed oar. Youcould see them first-rate now.Jim looked at the trash, and then looked at me, and back at the trashagain. He had got the dream fixed so strong in his head that hecouldn’t seem to shake it loose and get the facts back into its placeagain right away. But when he did get the thing straightened around helooked at me steady without ever smiling, and says:“What do dey stan’ for? I’s gwyne to tell you. When I got all wore outwid work, en wid de callin’ for you, en went to sleep, my heart wuzmos’ broke bekase you wuz los’, en I didn’ k’yer no’ mo’ what become erme en de raf’. En when I wake up en fine you back ag’in, all safe ensoun’, de tears come, en I could ’a’ got down on my knees en kiss yo’foot, I’s so thankful. En all you wuz thinkin’ ’bout wuz how you couldmake a fool uv ole Jim wid a lie. Dat truck dah is _trash_; en trashis what people is dat puts dirt on de head er dey fren’s en makes ’emashamed.”Then he got up slow and walked to the wigwam, and went in there withoutsaying anything but that. But that was enough. It made me feel so meanI could almost kissed _his_ foot to get him to take it back.It was fifteen minutes before I could work myself up to go and humblemyself to a nigger; but I done it, and I warn’t ever sorry for itafterward, neither. I didn’t do him no more mean tricks, and I wouldn’tdone that one if I’d ’a’ knowed it would make him feel that way.CHAPTER XVIWe slept most all day, and started out at night, a little ways behinda monstrous long raft that was as long going by as a procession. Shehad four long sweeps at each end, so we judged she carried as many asthirty men, likely. She had five big wigwams aboard, wide apart, and anopen camp-fire in the middle, and a tall flag-pole at each end. Therewas a power of style about her. It _amounted_ to something being araftsman on such a craft as that.We went drifting down into a big bend, and the night clouded up andgot hot. The river was very wide, and was walled with solid timber onboth sides; you couldn’t see a break in it hardly ever, or a light. Wetalked about Cairo, and wondered whether we would know it when we gotto it. I said likely we wouldn’t, because I had heard say there warn’tbut about a dozen houses there, and if they didn’t happen to have themlit up, how was we going to know we was passing a town? Jim said ifthe two big rivers joined together there, that would show. But I saidmaybe we might think we was passing the foot of an island and cominginto the same old river again. That disturbed Jim—and me too. So thequestion was, what to do? I said, paddle ashore the first time a lightshowed, and tell them pap was behind, coming along with a trading-scow,and was a green hand at the business, and wanted to know how far it wasto Cairo. Jim thought it was a good idea, so we took a smoke on it andwaited.There warn’t nothing to do now but to look out sharp for the town, andnot pass it without seeing it. He said he’d be mighty sure to see it,because he’d be a free man the minute he seen it, but if he missed ithe’d be in a slave country again and no more show for freedom. Everylittle while he jumps up and says:“Dah she is?”But it warn’t. It was Jack-o’-lanterns, or lightning-bugs; so he setdown again, and went to watching, same as before. Jim said it made himall over trembly and feverish to be so close to freedom. Well, I cantell you it made me all over trembly and feverish, too, to hear him,because I begun to get it through my head that he _was_ most free—andwho was to blame for it? Why, _me_. I couldn’t get that out of myconscience, no how nor no way. It got to troubling me so I couldn’trest; I couldn’t stay still in one place. It hadn’t ever come home tome before, what this thing was that I was doing. But now it did; and itstayed with me, and scorched me more and more. I tried to make out tomyself that _I_ warn’t to blame, because _I_ didn’t run Jim off fromhis rightful owner; but it warn’t no use, conscience up and says, everytime, “But you knowed he was running for his freedom, and you could ’a’paddled ashore and told somebody.” That was so—I couldn’t get aroundthat no way. That was where it pinched. Conscience says to me, “Whathad poor Miss Watson done to you that you could see her nigger go offright under your eyes and never say one single word? What did that poorold woman do to you that you could treat her so mean? Why, she tried tolearn you your book, she tried to learn you your manners, she tried tobe good to you every way she knowed how. _That’s_ what she done.”I got to feeling so mean and so miserable I most wished I was dead.I fidgeted up and down the raft, abusing myself to myself, and Jimwas fidgeting up and down past me. We neither of us could keep still.Every time he danced around and says, “Dah’s Cairo!” it went through melike a shot, and I thought if it _was_ Cairo I reckoned I would die ofmiserableness.Jim talked out loud all the time while I was talking to myself. He wassaying how the first thing he would do when he got to a free state hewould go to saving up money and never spend a single cent, and whenhe got enough he would buy his wife, which was owned on a farm closeto where Miss Watson lived; and then they would both work to buy thetwo children, and if their master wouldn’t sell them, they’d get anAb’litionist to go and steal them.It most froze me to hear such talk. He wouldn’t ever dared to talk suchtalk in his life before. Just see what a difference it made in him theminute he judged he was about free. It was according to the old saying,“Give a nigger an inch and he’ll take an ell.” Thinks I, this is whatcomes of my not thinking. Here was this nigger, which I had as good ashelped to run away, coming right out flat-footed and saying he wouldsteal his children—children that belonged to a man I didn’t even know;a man that hadn’t ever done me no harm.I was sorry to hear Jim say that, it was such a lowering of him. Myconscience got to stirring me up hotter than ever, until at last I saysto it, “Let up on me—it ain’t too late yet—I’ll paddle ashore at thefirst light and tell.” I felt easy and happy and light as a featherright off. All my troubles was gone. I went to looking out sharp for alight, and sort of singing to myself. By and by one showed. Jim singsout:“We’s safe, Huck, we’s safe! Jump up and crack yo’ heels! Dat’s de goodole Cairo at las’, I jis knows it!”I says:“I’ll take the canoe and go and see, Jim. It mightn’t be, you know.”He jumped and got the canoe ready, and put his old coat in the bottomfor me to set on, and give me the paddle; and as I shoved off, he says:“Pooty soon I’ll be a-shout’n’ for joy, en I’ll say, it’s all onaccounts o’ Huck; I’s a free man, en I couldn’t ever ben free ef ithadn’ ben for Huck; Huck done it. Jim won’t ever forgit you, Huck;you’s de bes’ fren’ Jim’s ever had; en you’s de _only_ fren’ ole Jim’sgot now.”I was paddling off, all in a sweat to tell on him; but when he saysthis, it seemed to kind of take the tuck all out of me. I went alongslow then, and I warn’t right down certain whether I was glad I startedor whether I warn’t. When I was fifty yards off, Jim says:“Dah you goes, de ole true Huck; de on’y white genlman dat ever kep’his promise to ole Jim.”Well, I just felt sick. But I says, I _got_ to do it—I can’t get _out_of it. Right then along comes a skiff with two men in it with guns, andthey stopped and I stopped. One of them says:“What’s that yonder?”“A piece of a raft,” I says.“Do you belong on it?”“Yes, sir.”“Any men on it?”“Only one, sir.”“Well, there’s five niggers run off to-night up yonder, above the headof the bend. Is your man white or black?”I didn’t answer up prompt. I tried to, but the words wouldn’t come. Itried for a second or two to brace up and out with it, but I warn’t manenough—hadn’t the spunk of a rabbit. I see I was weakening; so I justgive up trying, and up and says:“He’s white.”“I reckon we’ll go and see for ourselves.”“I wish you would,” says I, “because it’s pap that’s there, and maybeyou’d help me tow the raft ashore where the light is. He’s sick—and sois mam and Mary Ann.”“Oh, the devil! we’re in a hurry, boy. But I s’pose we’ve got to. Come,buckle to your paddle, and let’s get along.”I buckled to my paddle and they laid to their oars. When we had made astroke or two, I says:“Pap ’ll be mighty much obleeged to you, I can tell you. Everybody goesaway when I want them to help me tow the raft ashore, and I can’t do itby myself.”“Well, that’s infernal mean. Odd, too. Say, boy, what’s the matter withyour father?”“It’s the—a—the—well, it ain’t anything much.”They stopped pulling. It warn’t but a mighty little ways to the raftnow. One says:“Boy, that’s a lie. What _is_ the matter with your pap? Answer upsquare now, and it ’ll be the better for you.”“I will, sir, I will, honest—but don’t leave us, please. It’s the—the—Gentlemen, if you’ll only pull ahead, and let me heave you theheadline, you won’t have to come a-near the raft—please do.”“Set her back, John, set her back!” says one. They backed water. “Keepaway, boy—keep to looard. Confound it, I just expect the wind hasblowed it to us. Your pap’s got the smallpox, and you know it preciouswell. Why didn’t you come out and say so? Do you want to spread it allover?”“Well,” says I, a-blubbering, “I’ve told everybody before, and theyjust went away and left us.”“Poor devil, there’s something in that. We are right down sorry foryou, but we—well, hang it, we don’t want the smallpox, you see. Lookhere, I’ll tell you what to do. Don’t you try to land by yourself, oryou’ll smash everything to pieces. You float along down about twentymiles, and you’ll come to a town on the left-hand side of the river. Itwill be long after sun-up then, and when you ask for help you tell themyour folks are all down with chills and fever. Don’t be a fool again,and let people guess what is the matter. Now we’re trying to do you akindness; so you just put twenty miles between us, that’s a good boy.It wouldn’t do any good to land yonder where the light is—it’s only awood-yard. Say, I reckon your father’s poor, and I’m bound to say he’sin pretty hard luck. Here, I’ll put a twenty-dollar gold piece on thisboard, and you get it when it floats by. I feel mighty mean to leaveyou; but my kingdom! it won’t do to fool with smallpox, don’t you see?”“Hold on, Parker,” says the man, “here’s a twenty to put on the boardfor me. Good-by, boy; you do as Mr. Parker told you, and you’ll be allright.”“That’s so, my boy—good-by, good-bye. If you see any runaway niggersyou get help and nab them, and you can make some money by it.”“Good-by, sir,” says I; “I won’t let no runaway niggers get by me if Ican help it.”They went off and I got aboard the raft, feeling bad and low, becauseI knowed very well I had done wrong, and I see it warn’t no use for meto try to learn to do right; a body that don’t get _started_ right whenhe’s little ain’t got no show—when the pinch comes there ain’t nothingto back him up and keep him to his work, and so he gets beat. Then Ithought a minute, and says to myself, hold on; s’pose you’d ’a’ doneright and give Jim up, would you felt better than what you do now? No,says I, I’d feel bad—I’d feel just the same way I do now. Well, then,says I, what’s the use you learning to do right when it’s troublesometo do right and ain’t no trouble to do wrong, and the wages is just thesame? I was stuck. I couldn’t answer that. So I reckoned I wouldn’tbother no more about it, but after this always do whichever comehandiest at the time.I went into the wigwam; Jim warn’t there. I looked all around; hewarn’t anywhere. I says:“Jim!”“Here I is, Huck. Is dey out o’ sight yit? Don’t talk loud.”He was in the river under the stern oar, with just his nose out. I toldhim they were out of sight, so he come aboard. He says:“I was a-listenin’ to all de talk, en I slips into de river en wasgwyne to shove for sho’ if dey come aboard. Den I was gwyne to swim tode raf’ agin when dey was gone. But lawsy, how you did fool ’em, Huck!Dat _wuz_ de smartes’ dodge! I tell you, chile, I ’spec it save’ oleJim—ole Jim ain’t going to forgit you for dat, honey.”Then we talked about the money. It was a pretty good raise—twentydollars apiece. Jim said we could take deck passage on a steamboatnow, and the money would last us as far as we wanted to go in the freestates. He said twenty mile more warn’t far for the raft to go, but hewished we was already there.Towards daybreak we tied up, and Jim was mighty particular about hidingthe raft good. Then he worked all day fixing things in bundles, andgetting all ready to quit rafting.That night about ten we hove in sight of the lights of a town away downin a left-hand bend.I went off in the canoe to ask about it. Pretty soon I found a man outin the river with a skiff, setting a trot-line. I ranged up and says:“Mister, is that town Cairo?”“Cairo? no. You must be a blame’ fool.”“What town is it, mister?”“If you want to know, go and find out. If you stay here botherin’around me for about a half a minute longer you’ll get something youwon’t want.”I paddled to the raft. Jim was awful disappointed, but I said nevermind, Cairo would be the next place, I reckoned.We passed another town before daylight, and I was going out again; butit was high ground, so I didn’t go. No high ground about Cairo, Jimsaid. I had forgot it. We laid up for the day on a towhead tolerableclose to the left-hand bank. I begun to suspicion something. So didJim. I says:“Maybe we went by Cairo in the fog that night.”He says:“Doan’ le’s talk about it, Huck. Po’ niggers can’t have no luck. Iawluz ’spected dat rattlesnake-skin warn’t done wid its work.”“I wish I’d never seen that snake-skin, Jim—I do wish I’d never laideyes on it.”“It ain’t yo’ fault, Huck; you didn’t know. Don’t you blame yo’self’bout it.”When it was daylight, here was the clear Ohio water inshore, sureenough, and outside was the old regular Muddy! So it was all up withCairo.We talked it all over. It wouldn’t do to take to the shore; we couldn’ttake the raft up the stream, of course. There warn’t no way but to waitfor dark, and start back in the canoe and take the chances. So we sleptall day amongst the cottonwood thicket, so as to be fresh for the work,and when we went back to the raft about dark the canoe was gone!We didn’t say a word for a good while. There warn’t anything to say. Weboth knowed well enough it was some more work of the rattlesnake-skin;so what was the use to talk about it? It would only look like we wasfinding fault, and that would be bound to fetch more bad luck—and keepon fetching it, too, till we knowed enough to keep still.By and by we talked about what we better do, and found there warn’t noway but just to go along down with the raft till we got a chance to buya canoe to go back in. We warn’t going to borrow it when there warn’tanybody around, the way pap would do, for that might set people afterus.So we shoved out after dark on the raft.Anybody that don’t believe yet that it’s foolishness to handle asnake-skin, after all that that snake-skin done for us, will believe itnow if they read on and see what more it done for us.The place to buy canoes is off of rafts laying up at shore. But wedidn’t see no rafts laying up; so we went along during three hours andmore. Well, the night got gray and ruther thick, which is the nextmeanest thing to fog. You can’t tell the shape of the river, and youcan’t see no distance. It got to be very late and still, and then alongcomes a steamboat up the river. We lit the lantern, and judged shewould see it. Up-stream boats didn’t generly come close to us; they goout and follow the bars and hunt for easy water under the reefs; butnights like this they bull right up the channel against the whole river.We could hear her pounding along, but we didn’t see her good till shewas close. She aimed right for us. Often they do that and try to seehow close they can come without touching; sometimes the wheel bites offa sweep, and then the pilot sticks his head out and laughs, and thinkshe’s mighty smart. Well, here she comes, and we said she was going totry and shave us; but she didn’t seem to be sheering off a bit. She wasa big one, and she was coming in a hurry, too, looking like a blackcloud with rows of glow-worms around it; but all of a sudden she bulgedout, big and scary, with a long row of wide-open furnace doors shininglike red-hot teeth, and her monstrous bows and guards hanging rightover us. There was a yell at us, and a jingling of bells to stop theengines, a powwow of cussing, and whistling of steam—and as Jim wentoverboard on one side and I on the other, she come smashing straightthrough the raft.I dived—and I aimed to find the bottom, too, for a thirty-foot wheelhad got to go over me, and I wanted it to have plenty of room. I couldalways stay under water a minute; this time I reckon I stayed under aminute and a half. Then I bounced for the top in a hurry, for I wasnearly busting. I popped out to my armpits and blowed the water out ofmy nose, and puffed a bit. Of course there was a booming current; andof course that boat started her engines again ten seconds after shestopped them, for they never cared much for raftsmen; so now she waschurning along up the river, out of sight in the thick weather, thoughI could hear her.I sung out for Jim about a dozen times, but I didn’t get any answer;so I grabbed a plank that touched me while I was “treading water,” andstruck out for shore, shoving it ahead of me. But I made out to seethat the drift of the current was towards the left-hand shore, whichmeant that I was in a crossing; so I changed off and went that way.It was one of these long, slanting, two-mile crossings; so I was a goodlong time in getting over. I made a safe landing, and clumb up thebank. I couldn’t see but a little ways, but I went poking along overrough ground for a quarter of a mile or more, and then I run across abig old-fashioned double log house before I noticed it. I was going torush by and get away, but a lot of dogs jumped out and went to howlingand barking at me, and I knowed better than to move another peg.CHAPTER XVIIIn about a minute somebody spoke out of a window without putting hishead out, and says:“Be done, boys! Who’s there?”I says:“It’s me.”“Who’s me?”“George Jackson, sir.”“What do you want?”“I don’t want nothing, sir. I only want to go along by, but the dogswon’t let me.”“What are you prowling around here this time of night for—hey?”“I warn’t prowling around, sir; I fell overboard off of the steamboat.”“Oh, you did, did you? Strike a light there, somebody. What did you sayyour name was?”“George Jackson, sir. I’m only a boy.”“Look here, if you’re telling the truth you needn’t be afraid—nobody’ll hurt you. But don’t try to budge; stand right where you are. Rouseout Bob and Tom, some of you, and fetch the guns. George Jackson, isthere anybody with you?”“No, sir, nobody.”I heard the people stirring around in the house now, and see a light.The man sung out:“Snatch that light away, Betsy, you old fool—ain’t you got any sense?Put it on the floor behind the front door. Bob, if you and Tom areready, take your places.”“All ready.”“Now, George Jackson, do you know the Shepherdsons?”“No, sir; I never heard of them.”“Well, that may be so, and it mayn’t. Now, all ready. Step forward,George Jackson. And mind, don’t you hurry—come mighty slow. If there’sanybody with you, let him keep back—if he shows himself he’ll be shot.Come along now. Come slow; push the door open yourself—just enough tosqueeze in, d’you hear?”I didn’t hurry; I couldn’t if I’d a-wanted to. I took one slow step ata time and there warn’t a sound, only I thought I could hear my heart.The dogs were as still as the humans, but they followed a little behindme. When I got to the three log doorsteps I heard them unlocking andunbarring and unbolting. I put my hand on the door and pushed it alittle and a little more till somebody said, “There, that’s enough—putyour head in.” I done it, but I judged they would take it off.The candle was on the floor, and there they all was, looking at me,and me at them, for about a quarter of a minute: Three big men withguns pointed at me, which made me wince, I tell you; the oldest, grayand about sixty, the other two thirty or more—all of them fine andhandsome—and the sweetest old gray-headed lady, and back of her twoyoung women which I couldn’t see right well. The old gentleman says:“There; I reckon it’s all right. Come in.”As soon as I was in the old gentleman he locked the door and barred itand bolted it, and told the young men to come in with their guns, andthey all went in a big parlor that had a new rag carpet on the floor,and got together in a corner that was out of the range of the frontwindows—there warn’t none on the side. They held the candle, and tooka good look at me, and all said, “Why, _he_ ain’t a Shepherdson—no,there ain’t any Shepherdson about him.” Then the old man said he hopedI wouldn’t mind being searched for arms, because he didn’t mean no harmby it—it was only to make sure. So he didn’t pry into my pockets, butonly felt outside with his hands, and said it was all right. He told meto make myself easy and at home, and tell all about myself; but the oldlady says:“Why, bless you, Saul, the poor thing’s as wet as he can be; and don’tyou reckon it may be he’s hungry?”“True for you, Rachel—I forgot.”So the old lady says:“Betsy” (this was a nigger woman), “you fly around and get himsomething to eat as quick as you can, poor thing; and one of you girlsgo and wake up Buck and tell him—oh, here he is himself. Buck, takethis little stranger and get the wet clothes off from him and dress himup in some of yours that’s dry.”Buck looked about as old as me—thirteen or fourteen or along there,though he was a little bigger than me. He hadn’t on anything but ashirt, and he was very frowzy-headed. He came in gaping and digging onefist into his eyes, and he was dragging a gun along with the other one.He says:“Ain’t they no Shepherdsons around?”They said, no, ’twas a false alarm.“Well,” he says, “if they’d ’a’ ben some, I reckon I’d ’a’ got one.”They all laughed, and Bob says:“Why, Buck, they might have scalped us all, you’ve been so slow incoming.”“Well, nobody come after me, and it ain’t right. I’m always kept down;I don’t get no show.”“Never mind, Buck, my boy,” says the old man, “you’ll have show enough,all in good time, don’t you fret about that. Go ’long with you now, anddo as your mother told you.”When we got up-stairs to his room he got me a coarse shirt and aroundabout and pants of his, and I put them on. While I was at it heasked me what my name was, but before I could tell him he started totell me about a bluejay and a young rabbit he had catched in the woodsday before yesterday, and he asked me where Moses was when the candlewent out. I said I didn’t know; I hadn’t heard about it before, no way.“Well, guess,” he says.“How’m I going to guess,” says I, “when I never heard tell of itbefore?”“But you can guess, can’t you? It’s just as easy.”“_Which_ candle?” I says.“Why, any candle,” he says.“I don’t know where he was,” says I; “where was he?”“Why, he was in the _dark!_ That’s where he was!”“Well, if you knowed where he was, what did you ask me for?”“Why, blame it, it’s a riddle, don’t you see? Say, how long are yougoing to stay here? You got to stay always. We can just have boomingtimes—they don’t have no school now. Do you own a dog? I’ve got adog—and he’ll go in the river and bring out chips that you throw in. Doyou like to comb up Sundays, and all that kind of foolishness? You betI don’t, but ma she makes me. Confound these ole britches! I reckon I’dbetter put ’em on, but I’d ruther not, it’s so warm. Are you all ready?All right. Come along, old hoss.”Cold corn-pone, cold corn-beef, butter and buttermilk—that is what theyhad for me down there, and there ain’t nothing better that ever I’vecome across yet. Buck and his ma and all of them smoked cob pipes,except the nigger woman, which was gone, and the two young women.They all smoked and talked, and I eat and talked. The young women hadquilts around them, and their hair down their backs. They all asked mequestions, and I told them how pap and me and all the family was livingon a little farm down at the bottom of Arkansaw, and my sister Mary Annrun off and got married and never was heard of no more, and Bill wentto hunt them and he warn’t heard of no more, and Tom and Mort died,and then there warn’t nobody but just me and pap left, and he was justtrimmed down to nothing, on account of his troubles; so when he diedI took what there was left, because the farm didn’t belong to us, andstarted up the river, deck passage, and fell overboard; and that washow I come to be here. So they said I could have a home there as longas I wanted it. Then it was most daylight and everybody went to bed,and I went to bed with Buck, and when I waked up in the morning, dratit all, I had forgot what my name was. So I laid there about an hourtrying to think, and when Buck waked up I says:“Can you spell, Buck?”“Yes,” he says.“I bet you can’t spell my name,” says I.“I bet you what you dare I can,” says he.“All right,” says I, “go ahead.”“G-e-o-r-g-e J-a-x-o-n—there now,” he says.“Well,” says I, “you done it, but I didn’t think you could. It ain’t noslouch of a name to spell—right off without studying.”I set it down, private, because somebody might want _me_ to spell itnext, and so I wanted to be handy with it and rattle it off like I wasused to it.It was a mighty nice family, and a mighty nice house, too. I hadn’tseen no house out in the country before that was so nice and had somuch style. It didn’t have an iron latch on the front door, nor awooden one with a buckskin string, but a brass knob to turn, the sameas houses in town. There warn’t no bed in the parlor, nor a sign of abed; but heaps of parlors in towns has beds in them. There was a bigfireplace that was bricked on the bottom, and the bricks was kept cleanand red by pouring water on them and scrubbing them with another brick;sometimes they wash them over with red water-paint that they callSpanish-brown, same as they do in town. They had big brass dog-ironsthat could hold up a saw-log. There was a clock on the middle of themantelpiece, with a picture of a town painted on the bottom half ofthe glass front, and a round place in the middle of it for the sun,and you could see the pendulum swinging behind it. It was beautiful tohear that clock tick; and sometimes when one of these peddlers had beenalong and scoured her up and got her in good shape, she would startin and strike a hundred and fifty before she got tuckered out. Theywouldn’t took any money for her.Well, there was a big outlandish parrot on each side of the clock,made out of something like chalk, and painted up gaudy. By one of theparrots was a cat made of crockery, and a crockery dog by the other;and when you pressed down on them they squeaked, but didn’t opentheir mouths nor look different nor interested. They squeaked throughunderneath. There was a couple of big wild-turkey-wing fans spread outbehind those things. On the table in the middle of the room was a kindof a lovely crockery basket that had apples and oranges and peaches andgrapes piled up in it, which was much redder and yellower and prettierthan real ones is, but they warn’t real because you could see wherepieces had got chipped off and showed the white chalk, or whatever itwas, underneath.This table had a cover made out of beautiful oilcloth, with a red andblue spread-eagle painted on it, and a painted border all around. Itcome all the way from Philadelphia, they said. There was some books,too, piled up perfectly exact, on each corner of the table. One was abig family Bible full of pictures. One was _Pilgrim’s Progress_, abouta man that left his family, it didn’t say why. I read considerable init now and then. The statements was interesting, but tough. Anotherwas _Friendship’s Offering_, full of beautiful stuff and poetry; but Ididn’t read the poetry. Another was Henry Clay’s Speeches, and anotherwas Dr. Gunn’s Family Medicine, which told you all about what to doif a body was sick or dead. There was a hymn-book, and a lot of otherbooks. And there was nice split-bottom chairs, and perfectly sound,too—not bagged down in the middle and busted, like an old basket.They had pictures hung on the walls—mainly Washingtons and Lafayettes,and battles, and Highland Marys, and one called “Signing theDeclaration.” There was some that they called crayons, which one ofthe daughters which was dead made her own self when she was onlyfifteen years old. They was different from any pictures I ever seebefore—blacker, mostly, than is common. One was a woman in a slim blackdress, belted small under the armpits, with bulges like a cabbage inthe middle of the sleeves, and a large black scoop-shovel bonnet witha black veil, and white slim ankles crossed about with black tape, andvery wee black slippers, like a chisel, and she was leaning pensiveon a tombstone on her right elbow, under a weeping willow, and herother hand hanging down her side holding a white handkerchief and areticule, and underneath the picture it said “Shall I Never See TheeMore Alas.” Another one was a young lady with her hair all combed upstraight to the top of her head, and knotted there in front of a comblike a chair-back, and she was crying into a handkerchief and had adead bird laying on its back in her other hand with its heels up, andunderneath the picture it said “I Shall Never Hear Thy Sweet ChirrupMore Alas.” There was one where a young lady was at a window lookingup at the moon, and tears running down her cheeks; and she had an openletter in one hand with black sealing-wax showing on one edge of it,and she was mashing a locket with a chain to it against her mouth, andunderneath the picture it said “And Art Thou Gone Yes Thou Art GoneAlas.” These was all nice pictures, I reckon, but I didn’t somehowseem to take to them, because if ever I was down a little they alwaysgive me the fantods. Everybody was sorry she died, because she hadlaid out a lot more of these pictures to do, and a body could see bywhat she had done what they had lost. But I reckoned that with herdisposition she was having a better time in the graveyard. She was atwork on what they said was her greatest picture when she took sick,and every day and every night it was her prayer to be allowed to livetill she got it done, but she never got the chance. It was a picture ofa young woman in a long white gown, standing on the rail of a bridgeall ready to jump off, with her hair all down her back, and lookingup to the moon, with the tears running down her face, and she had twoarms folded across her breast, and two arms stretched out in front,and two more reaching up toward the moon—and the idea was to see whichpair would look best, and then scratch out all the other arms; but, asI was saying, she died before she got her mind made up, and now theykept this picture over the head of the bed in her room, and every timeher birthday come they hung flowers on it. Other times it was hid witha little curtain. The young woman in the picture had a kind of a nicesweet face, but there was so many arms it made her look too spidery,seemed to me.This young girl kept a scrap-book when she was alive, and used to pasteobituaries and accidents and cases of patient suffering in it out ofthe _Presbyterian Observer_, and write poetry after them out of her ownhead. It was very good poetry. This is what she wrote about a boy bythe name of Stephen Dowling Bots that fell down a well and was drownded:ODE TO STEPHEN DOWLING BOTS, DEC’D    And did young Stephen sicken,    And did young Stephen die?    And did the sad hearts thicken,    And did the mourners cry?    No; such was not the fate of    Young Stephen Dowling Bots;    Though sad hearts round him thickened,    ’Twas not from sickness’ shots.    No whooping-cough did rack his frame,    Nor measles drear with spots;    Not these impaired the sacred name    Of Stephen Dowling Bots.    Despised love struck not with woe    That head of curly knots,    Nor stomach troubles laid him low,    Young Stephen Dowling Bots.    O no. Then list with tearful eye,    Whilst I his fate do tell.    His soul did from this cold world fly    By falling down a well.    They got him out and emptied him;    Alas it was too late;    His spirit was gone for to sport aloft    In the realms of the good and great.If Emmeline Grangerford could make poetry like that before she wasfourteen, there ain’t no telling what she could ’a’ done by and by.Buck said she could rattle off poetry like nothing. She didn’t everhave to stop to think. He said she would slap down a line, and if shecouldn’t find anything to rhyme with it would just scratch it out andslap down another one, and go ahead. She warn’t particular; she couldwrite about anything you choose to give her to write about just so itwas sadful. Every time a man died, or a woman died, or a child died,she would be on hand with her “tribute” before he was cold. She calledthem tributes. The neighbors said it was the doctor first, thenEmmeline, then the undertaker—the undertaker never got in ahead ofEmmeline but once, and then she hung fire on a rhyme for the deadperson’s name, which was Whistler. She warn’t ever the same afterthat; she never complained, but she kinder pined away and did not livelong. Poor thing, many’s the time I made myself go up to the littleroom that used to be hers and get out her poor old scrap-book and readin it when her pictures had been aggravating me and I had soured onher a little. I liked all that family, dead ones and all, and warn’tgoing to let anything come between us. Poor Emmeline made poetry aboutall the dead people when she was alive, and it didn’t seem right thatthere warn’t nobody to make some about her now she was gone; so Itried to sweat out a verse or two myself, but I couldn’t seem to makeit go somehow. They kept Emmeline’s room trim and nice, and all thethings fixed in it just the way she liked to have them when she wasalive, and nobody ever slept there. The old lady took care of the roomherself, though there was plenty of niggers, and she sewed there agood deal and read her Bible there mostly.Well, as I was saying about the parlor, there was beautiful curtainson the windows: white, with pictures painted on them of castles withvines all down the walls, and cattle coming down to drink. There was alittle old piano, too, that had tin pans in it, I reckon, and nothingwas ever so lovely as to hear the young ladies sing “The Last Link isBroken” and play “The Battle of Prague” on it. The walls of all therooms was plastered, and most had carpets on the floors, and the wholehouse was whitewashed on the outside.It was a double house, and the big open place betwixt them was roofedand floored, and sometimes the table was set there in the middle ofthe day, and it was a cool, comfortable place. Nothing couldn’t bebetter. And warn’t the cooking good, and just bushels of it too!CHAPTER XVIIICol. Grangerford was a gentleman, you see. He was a gentleman all over;and so was his family. He was well born, as the saying is, and that’sworth as much in a man as it is in a horse, so the Widow Douglas said,and nobody ever denied that she was of the first aristocracy in ourtown; and pap he always said it, too, though he warn’t no more qualitythan a mudcat himself. Col. Grangerford was very tall and very slim,and had a darkish-paly complexion, not a sign of red in it anywheres;he was clean-shaved every morning all over his thin face, and he hadthe thinnest kind of lips, and the thinnest kind of nostrils, and ahigh nose, and heavy eyebrows, and the blackest kind of eyes, sunk sodeep back that they seemed like they was looking out of caverns atyou, as you may say. His forehead was high, and his hair was gray andstraight and hung to his shoulders. His hands was long and thin, andevery day of his life he put on a clean shirt and a full suit fromhead to foot made out of linen so white it hurt your eyes to look atit; and on Sundays he wore a blue tail-coat with brass buttons on it.He carried a mahogany cane with a silver head to it. There warn’t nofrivolishness about him, not a bit, and he warn’t ever loud. He wasas kind as he could be—you could feel that, you know, and so you hadconfidence. Sometimes he smiled, and it was good to see; but when hestraightened himself up like a liberty-pole, and the lightning begun toflicker out from under his eyebrows, you wanted to climb a tree first,and find out what the matter was afterwards. He didn’t ever have totell anybody to mind their manners—everybody was always good-manneredwhere he was. Everybody loved to have him around, too; he was sunshinemost always—I mean he made it seem like good weather. When he turnedinto a cloud-bank it was awful dark for half a minute, and that wasenough; there wouldn’t nothing go wrong again for a week.When him and the old lady come down in the morning all the family gotup out of their chairs and give them good day, and didn’t set downagain till they had set down. Then Tom and Bob went to the sideboardwhere the decanter was, and mixed a glass of bitters and handed it tohim, and he held it in his hand and waited till Tom’s and Bob’s wasmixed, and then they bowed and said, “Our duty to you, sir, and madam”;and _they_ bowed the least bit in the world and said thank you, and sothey drank, all three, and Bob and Tom poured a spoonful of water onthe sugar and the mite of whisky or apple-brandy in the bottom of theirtumblers, and give it to me and Buck, and we drank to the old peopletoo.Bob was the oldest and Tom next—tall, beautiful men with very broadshoulders and brown faces, and long black hair and black eyes. Theydressed in white linen from head to foot, like the old gentleman, andwore broad Panama hats.Then there was Miss Charlotte; she was twenty-five, and tall and proudand grand, but as good as she could be when she warn’t stirred up; butwhen she was she had a look that would make you wilt in your tracks,like her father. She was beautiful.So was her sister, Miss Sophia, but it was a different kind. She wasgentle and sweet like a dove, and she was only twenty.Each person had their own nigger to wait on them—Buck too. My niggerhad a monstrous easy time, because I warn’t used to having anybody doanything for me, but Buck’s was on the jump most of the time.This was all there was of the family now, but there used to bemore—three sons; they got killed; and Emmeline that died.The old gentleman owned a lot of farms and over a hundred niggers.Sometimes a stack of people would come there, horseback, from tenor fifteen mile around, and stay five or six days, and have suchjunketings round about and on the river, and dances and picnics in thewoods daytimes, and balls at the house nights. These people was mostlykinfolks of the family. The men brought their guns with them. It was ahandsome lot of quality, I tell you.There was another clan of aristocracy around there—five or sixfamilies—mostly of the name of Shepherdson. They was as high-tonedand well born and rich and grand as the tribe of Grangerfords. TheShepherdsons and Grangerfords used the same steamboat-landing, whichwas about two mile above our house; so sometimes when I went up therewith a lot of our folks I used to see a lot of the Shepherdsons thereon their fine horses.One day Buck and me was away out in the woods hunting, and heard ahorse coming. We was crossing the road. Buck says:“Quick! Jump for the woods!”We done it, and then peeped down the woods through the leaves. Prettysoon a splendid young man came galloping down the road, setting hishorse easy and looking like a soldier. He had his gun across hispommel. I had seen him before. It was young Harney Shepherdson. I heardBuck’s gun go off at my ear, and Harney’s hat tumbled off from hishead. He grabbed his gun and rode straight to the place where we washid. But we didn’t wait. We started through the woods on a run. Thewoods warn’t thick, so I looked over my shoulder to dodge the bullet,and twice I seen Harney cover Buck with his gun; and then he rode awaythe way he come—to get his hat, I reckon, but I couldn’t see. We neverstopped running till we got home. The old gentleman’s eyes blazed aminute—’twas pleasure, mainly, I judged—then his face sort of smootheddown, and he says, kind of gentle:“I don’t like that shooting from behind a bush. Why didn’t you stepinto the road, my boy?”“The Shepherdsons don’t, father. They always take advantage.”Miss Charlotte she held her head up like a queen while Buck was tellinghis tale, and her nostrils spread and her eyes snapped. The two youngmen looked dark, but never said nothing. Miss Sophia she turned pale,but the color come back when she found the man warn’t hurt.Soon as I could get Buck down by the corn-cribs under the trees byourselves, I says:“Did you want to kill him, Buck?”“Well, I bet I did.”“What did he do to you?”“Him? He never done nothing to me.”“Well, then, what did you want to kill him for?”“Why, nothing—only it’s on account of the feud.”“What’s a feud?”“Why, where was you raised? Don’t you know what a feud is?”“Never heard of it before—tell me about it.”“Well,” says Buck, “a feud is this way: A man has a quarrel withanother man, and kills him; then that other man’s brother kills _him_;then the other brothers, on both sides, goes for one another; then the_cousins_ chip in—and by and by everybody’s killed off, and there ain’tno more feud. But it’s kind of slow, and takes a long time.”“Has this one been going on long, Buck?”“Well, I should _reckon!_ It started thirty year ago, or som’ers alongthere. There was trouble ’bout something, and then a lawsuit to settleit; and the suit went agin one of the men, and so he up and shot theman that won the suit—which he would naturally do, of course. Anybodywould.”“What was the trouble about, Buck?—land?”“I reckon maybe—I don’t know.”“Well, who done the shooting? Was it a Grangerford or a Shepherdson?”“Laws, how do _I_ know? It was so long ago.”“Don’t anybody know?”“Oh, yes, pa knows, I reckon, and some of the other old people; butthey don’t know now what the row was about in the first place.”“Has there been many killed, Buck?”“Yes; right smart chance of funerals. But they don’t always kill. Pa’sgot a few buckshot in him; but he don’t mind it ’cuz he don’t weighmuch, anyway. Bob’s been carved up some with a bowie, and Tom’s beenhurt once or twice.”“Has anybody been killed this year, Buck?”“Yes; we got one and they got one. ’Bout three months ago my cousinBud, fourteen year old, was riding through the woods on t’other sideof the river, and didn’t have no weapon with him, which was blame’foolishness, and in a lonesome place he hears a horse a-coming behindhim, and sees old Baldy Shepherdson a-linkin’ after him with his gun inhis hand and his white hair a-flying in the wind; and ’stead of jumpingoff and taking to the brush, Bud ’lowed he could outrun him; so theyhad it, nip and tuck, for five mile or more, the old man a-gaining allthe time; so at last Bud seen it warn’t any use, so he stopped andfaced around so as to have the bullet-holes in front, you know, and theold man he rode up and shot him down. But he didn’t git much chance toenjoy his luck, for inside of a week our folks laid _him_ out.”“I reckon that old man was a coward, Buck.”“I reckon he _warn’t_ a coward. Not by a blame’ sight. There ain’t acoward amongst them Shepherdsons—not a one. And there ain’t no cowardsamongst the Grangerfords either. Why, that old man kep’ up his endin a fight one day for half an hour against three Grangerfords, andcome out winner. They was all a-horseback; he lit off of his horse andgot behind a little woodpile, and kep’ his horse before him to stopthe bullets; but the Grangerfords stayed on their horses and caperedaround the old man, and peppered away at him, and he peppered away atthem. Him and his horse both went home pretty leaky and crippled, butthe Grangerfords had to be _fetched_ home—and one of ’em was dead, andanother died the next day. No, sir; if a body’s out hunting for cowardshe don’t want to fool away any time amongst them Shepherdsons, becuzthey don’t breed any of that _kind_.”Next Sunday we all went to church, about three mile, everybodya-horseback. The men took their guns along, so did Buck, and keptthem between their knees or stood them handy against the wall. TheShepherdsons done the same. It was pretty ornery preaching—all aboutbrotherly love, and such-like tiresomeness; but everybody said it wasa good sermon, and they all talked it over going home, and had sucha powerful lot to say about faith and good works and free grace andpreforeordestination, and I don’t know what all, that it did seem to meto be one of the roughest Sundays I had run across yet.About an hour after dinner everybody was dozing around, some in theirchairs and some in their rooms, and it got to be pretty dull. Buck anda dog was stretched out on the grass in the sun sound asleep. I wentup to our room, and judged I would take a nap myself. I found thatsweet Miss Sophia standing in her door, which was next to ours, andshe took me in her room and shut the door very soft, and asked me if Iliked her, and I said I did; and she asked me if I would do somethingfor her and not tell anybody, and I said I would. Then she said she’dforgot her Testament, and left it in the seat at church between twoother books, and would I slip out quiet and go there and fetch it toher, and not say nothing to nobody. I said I would. So I slid out andslipped off up the road, and there warn’t anybody at the church, exceptmaybe a hog or two, for there warn’t any lock on the door, and hogslikes a puncheon floor in summer-time because it’s cool. If you notice,most folks don’t go to church only when they’ve got to; but a hog isdifferent.Says I to myself, something’s up; it ain’t natural for a girl to be insuch a sweat about a Testament. So I give it a shake, and out dropsa little piece of paper with “_Half past two_” wrote on it with apencil. I ransacked it, but couldn’t find anything else. I couldn’tmake anything out of that, so I put the paper in the book again,and when I got home and up-stairs there was Miss Sophia in her doorwaiting for me. She pulled me in and shut the door; then she lookedin the Testament till she found the paper, and as soon as she readit she looked glad; and before a body could think she grabbed me andgive me a squeeze, and said I was the best boy in the world, and notto tell anybody. She was mighty red in the face for a minute, and hereyes lighted up, and it made her powerful pretty. I was a good dealastonished, but when I got my breath I asked her what the paper wasabout, and she asked me if I had read it, and I said no, and she askedme if I could read writing, and I told her “no, only coarse-hand,” andthen she said the paper warn’t anything but a book-mark to keep herplace, and I might go and play now.I went off down to the river, studying over this thing, and pretty soonI noticed that my nigger was following along behind. When we was out ofsight of the house he looked back and around a second, and then comesa-running, and says:“Mars Jawge, if you’ll come down into de swamp I’ll show you a wholestack o’ water-moccasins.”Thinks I, that’s mighty curious; he said that yesterday. He oughterknow a body don’t love water-moccasins enough to go around hunting forthem. What is he up to, anyway? So I says:“All right; trot ahead.”I followed a half a mile; then he struck out over the swamp, and wadedankle-deep as much as another half-mile. We come to a little flat pieceof land which was dry and very thick with trees and bushes and vines,and he says:“You shove right in dah jist a few steps, Mars Jawge; dah’s whah deyis. I’s seed ’m befo’; I don’t k’yer to see ’em no mo’.”Then he slopped right along and went away, and pretty soon the treeshid him. I poked into the place a ways and come to a little open patchas big as a bedroom all hung around with vines, and found a man layingthere asleep—and, by jings, it was my old Jim!I waked him up, and I reckoned it was going to be a grand surprise tohim to see me again, but it warn’t. He nearly cried he was so glad, buthe warn’t surprised. Said he swum along behind me that night, and heardme yell every time, but dasn’t answer, because he didn’t want nobody topick _him_ up and take him into slavery again. Says he:“I got hurt a little, en couldn’t swim fas’, so I wuz a considerableways behine you towards de las’; when you landed I reck’ned I couldketch up wid you on de lan’ ’dout havin’ to shout at you, but when Isee dat house I begin to go slow. I ’uz off too fur to hear what deysay to you—I wuz ’fraid o’ de dogs; but when it ’uz all quiet ag’in Iknowed you’s in de house, so I struck out for de woods to wait for day.Early in de mawnin’ some er de niggers come along, gwyne to de fields,en dey tuk me en showed me dis place, whah de dogs can’t track me onaccounts o’ de water, en dey brings me truck to eat every night, entells me how you’s a-gittin’ along.”“Why didn’t you tell my Jack to fetch me here sooner, Jim?”“Well, ’twarn’t no use to ’sturb you, Huck, tell we could do sumfn—butwe’s all right now. I ben a-buyin’ pots en pans en vittles, as I got achanst, en a-patchin’ up de raf’ nights when—”“_What_ raft, Jim?”“Our ole raf’.”“You mean to say our old raft warn’t smashed all to flinders?”“No, she warn’t. She was tore up a good deal—one en’ of her was; butdey warn’t no great harm done, on’y our traps was mos’ all los’. Efwe hadn’ dive’ so deep en swum so fur under water, en de night hadn’tben so dark, en we warn’t so sk’yerd, en ben sich punkin-heads, as desayin’ is, we’d a seed de raf’. But it’s jis’ as well we didn’t, ’kasenow she’s all fixed up ag’in mos’ as good as new, en we’s got a new loto’ stuff, in de place o’ what ’uz los’.”“Why, how did you get hold of the raft again, Jim—did you catch her?”“How I gwyne to ketch her en I out in de woods? No; some er de niggersfoun’ her ketched on a snag along heah in de ben’, en dey hid her ina crick ’mongst de willows, en dey wuz so much jawin’ ’bout which un’um she b’long to de mos’ dat I come to heah ’bout it pooty soon, soI ups en settles de trouble by tellin’ ’um she don’t b’long to noneuv ’um, but to you en me; en I ast ’m if dey gwyne to grab a youngwhite genlman’s propaty, en git a hid’n for it? Den I gin ’m ten centsapiece, en dey ’uz mighty well satisfied, en wisht some mo’ raf’s ’udcome along en make ’m rich ag’in. Dey’s mighty good to me, dese niggersis, en whatever I wants ’m to do fur me I doan’ have to ast ’m twice,honey. Dat Jack’s a good nigger, en pooty smart.”“Yes, he is. He ain’t ever told me you was here; told me to come, andhe’d show me a lot of water-moccasins. If anything happens _he_ ain’tmixed up in it. He can say he never seen us together, and it ’ll be thetruth.”I don’t want to talk much about the next day. I reckon I’ll cut itpretty short. I waked up about dawn, and was a-going to turn over andgo to sleep again when I noticed how still it was—didn’t seem to beanybody stirring. That warn’t usual. Next I noticed that Buck was upand gone. Well, I gets up, a-wondering, and goes down-stairs—nobodyaround; everything as still as a mouse. Just the same outside. ThinksI, what does it mean? Down by the woodpile I comes across my Jack, andsays:“What’s it all about?”Says he:“Don’t you know, Mars Jawge?”“No,” says I, “I don’t.”“Well, den, Miss Sophia’s run off! ’deed she has. She run off in denight some time—nobody don’t know jis’ when; run off to get marriedto dat young Harney Shepherdson, you know—leastways, so dey ’spec.De fambly foun’ it out ’bout half an hour ago—maybe a little mo’—en’I _tell_ you dey warn’t no time los’. Sich another hurryin’ up gunsen hosses _you_ never see! De women folks has gone for to stir up derelations, en ole Mars Saul en de boys tuck dey guns en rode up deriver road for to try to ketch dat young man en kill him ’fo’ he kingit acrost de river wid Miss Sophia. I reck’n dey’s gwyne to be mightyrough times.”“Buck went off ’thout waking me up.”“Well, I reck’n he _did!_ Dey warn’t gwyne to mix you up in it.Mars Buck he loaded up his gun en ’lowed he’s gwyne to fetch home aShepherdson or bust. Well, dey’ll be plenty un ’m dah, I reck’n, en youbet you he’ll fetch one ef he gits a chanst.”I took up the river road as hard as I could put. By and by I begin tohear guns a good ways off. When I came in sight of the log store andthe woodpile where the steamboats lands I worked along under the treesand brush till I got to a good place, and then I clumb up into theforks of a cottonwood that was out of reach, and watched. There was awood-rank four foot high a little ways in front of the tree, and firstI was going to hide behind that; but maybe it was luckier I didn’t.There was four or five men cavorting around on their horses in the openplace before the log store, cussing and yelling, and trying to get ata couple of young chaps that was behind the wood-rank alongside of thesteamboat-landing; but they couldn’t come it. Every time one of themshowed himself on the river side of the woodpile he got shot at. Thetwo boys was squatting back to back behind the pile, so they couldwatch both ways.By and by the men stopped cavorting around and yelling. They startedriding towards the store; then up gets one of the boys, draws a steadybead over the wood-rank, and drops one of them out of his saddle. Allthe men jumped off of their horses and grabbed the hurt one and startedto carry him to the store; and that minute the two boys started on therun. They got half-way to the tree I was in before the men noticed.Then the men see them, and jumped on their horses and took out afterthem. They gained on the boys, but it didn’t do no good, the boys hadtoo good a start; they got to the woodpile that was in front of mytree, and slipped in behind it, and so they had the bulge on the menagain. One of the boys was Buck, and the other was a slim young chapabout nineteen years old.The men ripped around awhile, and then rode away. As soon as theywas out of sight I sung out to Buck and told him. He didn’t knowwhat to make of my voice coming out of the tree at first. He wasawful surprised. He told me to watch out sharp and let him know whenthe men come in sight again; said they was up to some devilment orother—wouldn’t be gone long. I wished I was out of that tree, but Idasn’t come down. Buck begun to cry and rip, and ’lowed that him andhis cousin Joe (that was the other young chap) would make up for thisday yet. He said his father and his two brothers was killed, and two orthree of the enemy. Said the Shepherdsons laid for them in ambush. Bucksaid his father and brothers ought to waited for their relations—theShepherdsons was too strong for them. I asked him what was become ofyoung Harney and Miss Sophia. He said they’d got across the river andwas safe. I was glad of that; but the way Buck did take on because hedidn’t manage to kill Harney that day he shot at him—I hain’t everheard anything like it.All of a sudden, bang! bang! bang! goes three or four guns—the men hadslipped around through the woods and come in from behind without theirhorses! The boys jumped for the river—both of them hurt—and as theyswum down the current the men run along the bank shooting at them andsinging out, “Kill them, kill them!” It made me so sick I most fellout of the tree. I ain’t a-going to tell _all_ that happened—it wouldmake me sick again if I was to do that. I wished I hadn’t ever comeashore that night to see such things. I ain’t ever going to get shut ofthem—lots of times I dream about them.I stayed in the tree till it begun to get dark, afraid to come down.Sometimes I heard guns away off in the woods; and twice I seen littlegangs of men gallop past the log store with guns; so I reckoned thetrouble was still a-going on. I was mighty downhearted; so I made upmy mind I wouldn’t ever go a-near that house again, because I reckonedI was to blame, somehow. I judged that that piece of paper meant thatMiss Sophia was to meet Harney somewheres at half past two and runoff; and I judged I ought to told her father about that paper and thecurious way she acted, and then maybe he would ’a’ locked her up, andthis awful mess wouldn’t ever happened.When I got down out of the tree I crept along down the river-bank apiece, and found the two bodies laying in the edge of the water, andtugged at them till I got them ashore; then I covered up their faces,and got away as quick as I could. I cried a little when I was coveringup Buck’s face, for he was mighty good to me.It was just dark now. I never went near the house, but struck throughthe woods and made for the swamp. Jim warn’t on his island, so Itramped off in a hurry for the crick, and crowded through the willows,red-hot to jump aboard and get out of that awful country. The raft wasgone! My souls, but I was scared! I couldn’t get my breath for most aminute. Then I raised a yell. A voice not twenty-five foot from me says:“Good lan’! is dat you, honey? Doan’ make no noise.”It was Jim’s voice—nothing ever sounded so good before. I run along thebank a piece and got aboard, and Jim he grabbed me and hugged me, hewas so glad to see me. He says:“Laws bless you, chile, I ’uz right down sho’ you’s dead ag’in. Jack’sbeen heah; he say he reck’n you’s ben shot, kase you didn’ come home nomo’; so I’s jes’ dis minute a-startin’ de raf’ down towards de mouf erde crick, so’s to be all ready for to shove out en leave soon as Jackcomes ag’in en tells me for certain you _is_ dead. Lawsy, I’s mightyglad to git you back ag’in, honey.”I says:“All right—that’s mighty good; they won’t find me, and they’ll thinkI’ve been killed, and floated down the river—there’s something up therethat ’ll help them think so—so don’t you lose no time, Jim, but justshove off for the big water as fast as ever you can.”I never felt easy till the raft was two mile below there and out inthe middle of the Mississippi. Then we hung up our signal lantern, andjudged that we was free and safe once more. I hadn’t had a bite to eatsince yesterday, so Jim he got out some corn-dodgers and buttermilk,and pork and cabbage and greens—there ain’t nothing in the world sogood when it’s cooked right—and whilst I eat my supper we talked andhad a good time. I was powerful glad to get away from the feuds, and sowas Jim to get away from the swamp. We said there warn’t no home like araft, after all. Other places do seem so cramped up and smothery, but araft don’t. You feel mighty free and easy and comfortable on a raft.CHAPTER XIXTwo or three days and nights went by; I reckon I might say they swumby, they slid along so quiet and smooth and lovely. Here is the way weput in the time. It was a monstrous big river down there—sometimes amile and a half wide; we run nights, and laid up and hid daytimes; soonas night was most gone we stopped navigating and tied up—nearly alwaysin the dead water under a towhead; and then cut young cottonwoodsand willows, and hid the raft with them. Then we set out the lines.Next we slid into the river and had a swim, so as to freshen upand cool off; then we set down on the sandy bottom where the waterwas about knee-deep, and watched the daylight come. Not a soundanywheres—perfectly still—just like the whole world was asleep, onlysometimes the bullfrogs a-cluttering, maybe. The first thing to see,looking away over the water, was a kind of dull line—that was thewoods on t’other side; you couldn’t make nothing else out; then a paleplace in the sky; then more paleness spreading around; then the riversoftened up away off, and warn’t black any more, but gray; you couldsee little dark spots drifting along ever so far away—trading-scows,and such things; and long black streaks—rafts; sometimes you could heara sweep screaking; or jumbled-up voices, it was so still, and soundscome so far; and by and by you could see a streak on the water whichyou know by the look of the streak that there’s a snag there in a swiftcurrent which breaks on it and makes that streak look that way; and yousee the mist curl up off of the water, and the east reddens up, andthe river, and you make out a log cabin in the edge of the woods, awayon the bank on t’other side of the river, being a wood-yard, likely,and piled by them cheats so you can throw a dog through it anywheres;then the nice breeze springs up, and comes fanning you from over there,so cool and fresh and sweet to smell on account of the woods and theflowers; but sometimes not that way, because they’ve left dead fishlaying around, gars and such, and they do get pretty rank; and nextyou’ve got the full day, and everything smiling in the sun, and thesong-birds just going it!A little smoke couldn’t be noticed now, so we would take some fish offof the lines and cook up a hot breakfast. And afterwards we wouldwatch the lonesomeness of the river, and kind of lazy along, and byand by lazy off to sleep. Wake up by and by, and look to see what doneit, and maybe see a steamboat coughing along up-stream, so far offtowards the other side you couldn’t tell nothing about her onlywhether she was a stern-wheel or side-wheel; then for about an hourthere wouldn’t be nothing to hear nor nothing to see—just solidlonesomeness. Next you’d see a raft sliding by, away off yonder, andmaybe a galoot on it chopping, because they’re most always doing it ona raft; you’d see the ax flash and come down—you don’t hear nothing;you see that ax go up again, and by the time it’s above the man’s headthen you hear the _k’chunk!_—it had took all that time to come overthe water. So we would put in the day, lazying around, listening tothe stillness. Once there was a thick fog, and the rafts and thingsthat went by was beating tin pans so the steamboats wouldn’t run overthem. A scow or a raft went by so close we could hear them talking andcussing and laughing—heard them plain; but we couldn’t see no sign ofthem; it made you feel crawly; it was like spirits carrying on thatway in the air. Jim said he believed it was spirits; but I says:“No; spirits wouldn’t say, ’Dern the dern fog.’”Soon as it was night out we shoved; when we got her out to about themiddle we let her alone, and let her float wherever the current wantedher to; then we lit the pipes, and dangled our legs in the water, andtalked about all kinds of things—we was always naked, day and night,whenever the mosquitoes would let us—the new clothes Buck’s folksmade for me was too good to be comfortable, and besides I didn’t gomuch on clothes, nohow.Sometimes we’d have that whole river all to ourselves for the longesttime. Yonder was the banks and the islands, across the water; andmaybe a spark—which was a candle in a cabin window; and sometimes onthe water you could see a spark or two—on a raft or a scow, you know;and maybe you could hear a fiddle or a song coming over from one ofthem crafts. It’s lovely to live on a raft. We had the sky up there,all speckled with stars, and we used to lay on our backs and look upat them, and discuss about whether they was made or only justhappened. Jim he allowed they was made, but I allowed they happened; Ijudged it would have took too long to _make_ so many. Jim said themoon could ’a’ _laid_ them; well, that looked kind of reasonable, so Ididn’t say nothing against it, because I’ve seen a frog lay most asmany, so of course it could be done. We used to watch the stars thatfell, too, and see them streak down. Jim allowed they’d got spoiledand was hove out of the nest.Once or twice of a night we would see a steamboat slipping along inthe dark, and now and then she would belch a whole world of sparks upout of her chimbleys, and they would rain down in the river and lookawful pretty; then she would turn a corner and her lights would winkout and her powwow shut off and leave the river still again; and byand by her waves would get to us, a long time after she was gone, andjoggle the raft a bit, and after that you wouldn’t hear nothing foryou couldn’t tell how long, except maybe frogs or something.After midnight the people on shore went to bed, and then for two orthree hours the shores was black—no more sparks in the cabin windows.These sparks was our clock—the first one that showed again meantmorning was coming, so we hunted a place to hide and tie up rightaway.One morning about daybreak I found a canoe and crossed over a chute tothe main shore—it was only two hundred yards—and paddled about amile up a crick amongst the cypress woods, to see if I couldn’t getsome berries. Just as I was passing a place where a kind of a cowpathcrossed the crick, here comes a couple of men tearing up the path astight as they could foot it. I thought I was a goner, for wheneveranybody was after anybody I judged it was _me_—or maybe Jim. I wasabout to dig out from there in a hurry, but they was pretty close tome then, and sung out and begged me to save their lives—said theyhadn’t been doing nothing, and was being chased for it—said there wasmen and dogs a-coming. They wanted to jump right in, but I says:“Don’t you do it. I don’t hear the dogs and horses yet; you’ve gottime to crowd through the brush and get up the crick a little ways;then you take to the water and wade down to me and get in—that ’llthrow the dogs off the scent.”They done it, and soon as they was aboard I lit out for our towhead,and in about five or ten minutes we heard the dogs and the men awayoff, shouting. We heard them come along towards the crick, butcouldn’t see them; they seemed to stop and fool around awhile; then,as we got further and further away all the time, we couldn’t hardlyhear them at all; by the time we had left a mile of woods behind usand struck the river, everything was quiet, and we paddled over to thetowhead and hid in the cottonwoods and was safe.One of these fellows was about seventy or upwards, and had a bald headand very gray whiskers. He had an old battered-up slouch hat on, and agreasy blue woolen shirt, and ragged old blue jeans britches stuffedinto his boot-tops, and home-knit galluses—no, he only had one. Hehad an old long-tailed blue jeans coat with slick brass buttons flungover his arm, and both of them had big, fat, ratty-lookingcarpet-bags.The other fellow was about thirty, and dressed about as ornery. Afterbreakfast we all laid off and talked, and the first thing that comeout was that these chaps didn’t know one another.“What got you into trouble?” says the baldhead to t’other chap.“Well, I’d been selling an article to take the tartar off theteeth—and it does take it off, too, and generly the enamel along withit—but I stayed about one night longer than I ought to, and was justin the act of sliding out when I ran across you on the trail this sideof town, and you told me they were coming, and begged me to help youto get off. So I told you I was expecting trouble myself, and wouldscatter out _with_ you. That’s the whole yarn—what’s yourn?”“Well, I’d ben a-runnin’ a little temperance revival thar ’bout aweek, and was the pet of the women folks, big and little, for I wasmakin’ it mighty warm for the rummies, I _tell_ you, and takin’ asmuch as five or six dollars a night—ten cents a head, children andniggers free—and business a-growin’ all the time, when somehow oranother a little report got around last night that I had a way ofputtin’ in my time with a private jug on the sly. A nigger rousted meout this mornin’, and told me the people was getherin’ on the quietwith their dogs and horses, and they’d be along pretty soon and giveme ’bout half an hour’s start, and then run me down if they could; andif they got me they’d tar and feather me and ride me on a rail, sure.I didn’t wait for no breakfast—I warn’t hungry.”“Old man,” said the young one, “I reckon we might double-team ittogether; what do you think?”“I ain’t undisposed. What’s your line—mainly?”“Jour printer by trade; do a little in patent medicines;theater-actor—tragedy, you know; take a turn to mesmerism andphrenology when there’s a chance; teach singing-geography school for achange; sling a lecture sometimes—oh, I do lots of things—mostanything that comes handy, so it ain’t work. What’s your lay?”“I’ve done considerble in the doctoring way in my time. Layin’ on o’hands is my best holt—for cancer and paralysis, and sich things; andI k’n tell a fortune pretty good when I’ve got somebody along to findout the facts for me. Preachin’s my line, too, and workin’camp-meetin’s, and missionaryin’ around.”Nobody never said anything for a while; then the young man hove a sighand says:“Alas!”“What ’re you alassin’ about?” says the baldhead.“To think I should have lived to be leading such a life, and bedegraded down into such company.” And he begun to wipe the corner ofhis eye with a rag.“Dern your skin, ain’t the company good enough for you?” says thebaldhead, pretty pert and uppish.“Yes, it _is_ good enough for me; it’s as good as I deserve; for whofetched me so low when I was so high? _I_ did myself. I don’t blame_you_, gentlemen—far from it; I don’t blame anybody. I deserve itall. Let the cold world do its worst; one thing I know—there’s agrave somewhere for me. The world may go on just as it’s always done,and take everything from me—loved ones, property, everything; but itcan’t take that. Some day I’ll lie down in it and forget it all, andmy poor broken heart will be at rest.” He went on a-wiping.“Drot your pore broken heart,” says the baldhead; “what are youheaving your pore broken heart at _us_ f’r? _We_ hain’t done nothing.”“No, I know you haven’t. I ain’t blaming you, gentlemen. Ibrought myself down—yes, I did it myself. It’s right I shouldsuffer—perfectly right—I don’t make any moan.”“Brought you down from whar? Whar was you brought down from?”“Ah, you would not believe me; the world never believes—let itpass—’tis no matter. The secret of my birth—”“The secret of your birth! Do you mean to say—”“Gentlemen,” says the young man, very solemn, “I will reveal it toyou, for I feel I may have confidence in you. By rights I am a duke!”Jim’s eyes bugged out when he heard that; and I reckon mine did, too.Then the baldhead says: “No! you can’t mean it?”“Yes. My great-grandfather, eldest son of the Duke of Bridgewater,fled to this country about the end of the last century, to breathe thepure air of freedom; married here, and died, leaving a son, his ownfather dying about the same time. The second son of the late dukeseized the titles and estates—the infant real duke was ignored. I amthe lineal descendant of that infant—I am the rightful Duke ofBridgewater; and here am I, forlorn, torn from my high estate, huntedof men, despised by the cold world, ragged, worn, heartbroken, anddegraded to the companionship of felons on a raft!”Jim pitied him ever so much, and so did I. We tried to comfort him,but he said it warn’t much use, he couldn’t be much comforted; said ifwe was a mind to acknowledge him, that would do him more good thanmost anything else; so we said we would, if he would tell us how. Hesaid we ought to bow when we spoke to him, and say “Your Grace,” or“My Lord,” or “Your Lordship”—and he wouldn’t mind it if we calledhim plain “Bridgewater,” which, he said, was a title anyway, and not aname; and one of us ought to wait on him at dinner, and do any littlething for him he wanted done.Well, that was all easy, so we done it. All through dinner Jim stoodaround and waited on him, and says, “Will yo’ Grace have some o’ disor some o’ dat?” and so on, and a body could see it was mightypleasing to him.But the old man got pretty silent by and by—didn’t have much to say,and didn’t look pretty comfortable over all that petting that wasgoing on around that duke. He seemed to have something on his mind.So, along in the afternoon, he says:“Looky here, Bilgewater,” he says, “I’m nation sorry for you, but youain’t the only person that’s had troubles like that.”“No?”“No, you ain’t. You ain’t the only person that’s ben snaked downwrongfully out’n a high place.”“Alas!”“No, you ain’t the only person that’s had a secret of his birth.” And,by jings, _he_ begins to cry.“Hold! What do you mean?”“Bilgewater, kin I trust you?” says the old man, still sort ofsobbing.“To the bitter death!” He took the old man by the hand and squeezedit, and says, “That secret of your being: speak!”“Bilgewater, I am the late Dauphin!”You bet you, Jim and me stared this time. Then the duke says:“You are what?”“Yes, my friend, it is too true—your eyes is lookin’ at this verymoment on the pore disappeared Dauphin, Looy the Seventeen, son ofLooy the Sixteen and Marry Antonette.”“You! At your age! No! You mean you’re the late Charlemagne; you mustbe six or seven hundred years old, at the very least.”“Trouble has done it, Bilgewater, trouble has done it; trouble hasbrung these gray hairs and this premature balditude. Yes, gentlemen,you see before you, in blue jeans and misery, the wanderin’, exiled,trampled-on, and sufferin’ rightful King of France.”Well, he cried and took on so that me and Jim didn’t know hardly whatto do, we was so sorry—and so glad and proud we’d got him with us,too. So we set in, like we done before with the duke, and tried tocomfort _him._ But he said it warn’t no use, nothing but to be deadand done with it all could do him any good; though he said it oftenmade him feel easier and better for a while if people treated himaccording to his rights, and got down on one knee to speak to him, andalways called him “Your Majesty,” and waited on him first at meals,and didn’t set down in his presence till he asked them. So Jim and meset to majestying him, and doing this and that and t’other for him,and standing up till he told us we might set down. This done him heapsof good, and so he got cheerful and comfortable. But the duke kind ofsoured on him, and didn’t look a bit satisfied with the way things wasgoing; still, the king acted real friendly towards him, and said theduke’s great-grandfather and all the other Dukes of Bilgewater was agood deal thought of by _his_ father, and was allowed to come to thepalace considerable; but the duke stayed huffy a good while, till byand by the king says:“Like as not we got to be together a blamed long time on this h-yerraft, Bilgewater, and so what’s the use o’ your bein’ sour? It ’llonly make things oncomfortable. It ain’t my fault I warn’t born aduke, it ain’t your fault you warn’t born a king—so what’s the use toworry? Make the best o’ things the way you find ’em, says I—that’s mymotto. This ain’t no bad thing that we’ve struck here—plenty grub andan easy life—come, give us your hand, duke, and le’s all be friends.”The duke done it, and Jim and me was pretty glad to see it. It tookaway all the uncomfortableness and we felt mighty good over it,because it would ’a’ been a miserable business to have anyunfriendliness on the raft; for what you want, above all things, on araft, is for everybody to be satisfied, and feel right and kindtowards the others.It didn’t take me long to make up my mind that these liars warn’t nokings nor dukes at all, but just low-down humbugs and frauds. But Inever said nothing, never let on; kept it to myself; it’s the bestway; then you don’t have no quarrels, and don’t get into no trouble.If they wanted us to call them kings and dukes, I hadn’t noobjections, ’long as it would keep peace in the family; and it warn’tno use to tell Jim, so I didn’t tell him. If I never learnt nothingelse out of pap, I learnt that the best way to get along with his kindof people is to let them have their own way.CHAPTER XXThey asked us considerable many questions; wanted to know what wecovered up the raft that way for, and laid by in the daytime insteadof running—was Jim a runaway nigger? Says I:“Goodness sakes! would a runaway nigger run _south_?”No, they allowed he wouldn’t. I had to account for things some way, soI says:“My folks was living in Pike County, in Missouri, where I was born,and they all died off but me and pa and my brother Ike. Pa, he ’lowedhe’d break up and go down and live with Uncle Ben, who’s got a littleone-horse place on the river forty-four mile below Orleans. Pa waspretty poor, and had some debts; so when he’d squared up there warn’tnothing left but sixteen dollars and our nigger, Jim. That warn’tenough to take us fourteen hundred mile, deck passage nor no otherway. Well, when the river rose pa had a streak of luck one day; heketched this piece of a raft; so we reckoned we’d go down to Orleanson it. Pa’s luck didn’t hold out; a steamboat run over the forrardcorner of the raft one night, and we all went overboard and dove underthe wheel; Jim and me come up all right, but pa was drunk, and Ike wasonly four years old, so they never come up no more. Well, for the nextday or two we had considerable trouble, because people was alwayscoming out in skiffs and trying to take Jim away from me, saying theybelieved he was a runaway nigger. We don’t run daytimes no more now;nights they don’t bother us.”The duke says:“Leave me alone to cipher out a way so we can run in the daytime if wewant to. I’ll think the thing over—I’ll invent a plan that ’ll fixit. We’ll let it alone for to-day, because of course we don’t want togo by that town yonder in daylight—it mightn’t be healthy.”Towards night it begun to darken up and look like rain; theheat-lightning was squirting around low down in the sky, and theleaves was beginning to shiver—it was going to be pretty ugly, it waseasy to see that. So the duke and the king went to overhauling ourwigwam, to see what the beds was like. My bed was a straw tick—betterthan Jim’s, which was a corn-shuck tick; there’s always cobs aroundabout in a shuck tick, and they poke into you and hurt; and when youroll over the dry shucks sound like you was rolling over in a pile ofdead leaves; it makes such a rustling that you wake up. Well, the dukeallowed he would take my bed; but the king allowed he wouldn’t. Hesays:“I should ’a’ reckoned the difference in rank would a sejested to youthat a corn-shuck bed warn’t just fitten for me to sleep on. YourGrace ’ll take the shuck bed yourself.”Jim and me was in a sweat again for a minute, being afraid there wasgoing to be some more trouble amongst them; so we was pretty glad whenthe duke says:“’Tis my fate to be always ground into the mire under the iron heel ofoppression. Misfortune has broken my once haughty spirit; I yield, Isubmit; ’tis my fate. I am alone in the world—let me suffer; I canbear it.”We got away as soon as it was good and dark. The king told us to standwell out towards the middle of the river, and not show a light till wegot a long ways below the town. We come in sight of the little bunchof lights by and by—that was the town, you know—and slid by, about ahalf a mile out, all right. When we was three-quarters of a mile belowwe hoisted up our signal lantern; and about ten o’clock it come on torain and blow and thunder and lighten like everything; so the kingtold us to both stay on watch till the weather got better; then himand the duke crawled into the wigwam and turned in for the night. Itwas my watch below till twelve, but I wouldn’t ’a’ turned in anyway ifI’d had a bed, because a body don’t see such a storm as that every dayin the week, not by a long sight. My souls, how the wind did screamalong! And every second or two there’d come a glare that lit up thewhite-caps for a half a mile around, and you’d see the islands lookingdusty through the rain, and the trees thrashing around in the wind;then comes a _h-whack!_—bum! bum! bumble-umble-um-bum-bum-bum-bum—andthe thunder would go rumbling and grumbling away, and quit—and then_rip_ comes another flash and another sock-dolager. The waves mostwashed me off the raft sometimes, but I hadn’t any clothes on, anddidn’t mind. We didn’t have no trouble about snags; the lightningwas glaring and flittering around so constant that we could see themplenty soon enough to throw her head this way or that and miss them.I had the middle watch, you know, but I was pretty sleepy by thattime, so Jim he said he would stand the first half of it for me; hewas always mighty good that way, Jim was. I crawled into the wigwam,but the king and the duke had their legs sprawled around so therewarn’t no show for me; so I laid outside—I didn’t mind the rain,because it was warm, and the waves warn’t running so high now. Abouttwo they come up again, though, and Jim was going to call me; but hechanged his mind, because he reckoned they warn’t high enough yet todo any harm; but he was mistaken about that, for pretty soon all of asudden along comes a regular ripper and washed me overboard. It mostkilled Jim a-laughing. He was the easiest nigger to laugh that everwas, anyway.I took the watch, and Jim he laid down and snored away; and by and bythe storm let up for good and all; and the first cabin-light thatshowed I rousted him out, and we slid the raft into hiding-quartersfor the day.The king got out an old ratty deck of cards after breakfast, and himand the duke played seven-up awhile, five cents a game. Then they gottired of it, and allowed they would “lay out a campaign,” as theycalled it. The duke went down into his carpet-bag, and fetched up alot of little printed bills and read them out loud. One bill said,“The celebrated Dr. Armand de Montalban, of Paris,” would “lecture onthe Science of Phrenology” at such and such a place, on the blank dayof blank, at ten cents admission, and “furnish charts of character attwenty-five cents apiece.” The duke said that was _him._ In anotherbill he was the “world-renowned Shakespearian tragedian, Garrick theYounger, of Drury Lane, London.” In other bills he had a lot of othernames and done other wonderful things, like finding water and goldwith a “divining-rod,” “dissipating witch spells,” and so on. By andby he says:“But the histrionic muse is the darling. Have you ever trod theboards, Royalty?”“No,” says the king.“You shall, then, before you’re three days older, Fallen Grandeur,”says the duke. “The first good town we come to we’ll hire a hall anddo the sword-fight in ’Richard III.’ and the balcony scene in ’Romeoand Juliet.’ How does that strike you?”“I’m in, up to the hub, for anything that will pay, Bilgewater; but,you see, I don’t know nothing about play-actin’, and hain’t ever seenmuch of it. I was too small when pap used to have ’em at the palace.Do you reckon you can learn me?”“Easy!”“All right. I’m jist a-freezin’ for something fresh, anyway. Le’scommence right away.”So the duke he told him all about who Romeo was and who Juliet was,and said he was used to being Romeo, so the king could be Juliet.“But if Juliet’s such a young gal, duke, my peeled head and my whitewhiskers is goin’ to look oncommon odd on her, maybe.”“No, don’t you worry; these country jakes won’t ever think of that.Besides, you know, you’ll be in costume, and that makes all thedifference in the world; Juliet’s in a balcony, enjoying the moonlightbefore she goes to bed, and she’s got on her nightgown and her rufflednightcap. Here are the costumes for the parts.”He got out two or three curtain-calico suits, which he said wasmeedyevil armor for Richard III. and t’other chap, and a long whitecotton nightshirt and a ruffled nightcap to match. The king wassatisfied; so the duke got out his book and read the parts over in themost splendid spread-eagle way, prancing around and acting at the sametime, to show how it had got to be done; then he give the book to theking and told him to get his part by heart.There was a little one-horse town about three mile down the bend, andafter dinner the duke said he had ciphered out his idea about how torun in daylight without it being dangersome for Jim; so he allowed hewould go down to the town and fix that thing. The king allowed hewould go, too, and see if he couldn’t strike something. We was out ofcoffee, so Jim said I better go along with them in the canoe and getsome.When we got there there warn’t nobody stirring; streets empty, andperfectly dead and still, like Sunday. We found a sick nigger sunninghimself in a back yard, and he said everybody that warn’t too young ortoo sick or too old was gone to camp-meeting, about two mile back inthe woods. The king got the directions, and allowed he’d go and workthat camp-meeting for all it was worth, and I might go, too.The duke said what he was after was a printing-office. We found it; alittle bit of a concern, up over a carpenter-shop—carpenters andprinters all gone to the meeting, and no doors locked. It was a dirty,littered-up place, and had ink-marks, and handbills with pictures ofhorses and runaway niggers on them, all over the walls. The duke shedhis coat and said he was all right now. So me and the king lit out forthe camp-meeting.We got there in about a half an hour fairly dripping, for it was amost awful hot day. There was as much as a thousand people there fromtwenty mile around. The woods was full of teams and wagons, hitchedeverywheres, feeding out of the wagon-troughs and stomping to keep offthe flies. There was sheds made out of poles and roofed over withbranches, where they had lemonade and gingerbread to sell, and pilesof watermelons and green corn and such-like truck.The preaching was going on under the same kinds of sheds, only theywas bigger and held crowds of people. The benches was made out ofoutside slabs of logs, with holes bored in the round side to drivesticks into for legs. They didn’t have no backs. The preachers hadhigh platforms to stand on at one end of the sheds. The women had onsun-bonnets; and some had linsey-woolsey frocks, some gingham ones,and a few of the young ones had on calico. Some of the young men wasbarefooted, and some of the children didn’t have on any clothes butjust a tow-linen shirt. Some of the old women was knitting, and someof the young folks was courting on the sly.The first shed we come to the preacher was lining out a hymn. He linedout two lines, everybody sung it, and it was kind of grand to hear it,there was so many of them and they done it in such a rousing way; thenhe lined out two more for them to sing—and so on. The people woke upmore and more, and sung louder and louder; and towards the end somebegun to groan, and some begun to shout. Then the preacher begun topreach, and begun in earnest, too; and went weaving first to one sideof the platform and then the other, and then a-leaning down over thefront of it, with his arms and his body going all the time, andshouting his words out with all his might; and every now and then hewould hold up his Bible and spread it open, and kind of pass it aroundthis way and that, shouting, “It’s the brazen serpent in thewilderness! Look upon it and live!” And people would shout out,“Glory!—A-a-_men_!” And so he went on, and the people groaning andcrying and saying amen:“Oh, come to the mourners’ bench! come, black with sin! (_amen!_)come, sick and sore! (_amen!_) come, lame and halt and blind!(_amen!_) come, pore and needy, sunk in shame! (_a-a-men!_) come, allthat’s worn and soiled and suffering!—come with a broken spirit! comewith a contrite heart! come in your rags and sin and dirt! the watersthat cleanse is free, the door of heaven stands open—oh, enter in andbe at rest!” (_a-a-men! glory, glory hallelujah!_)And so on. You couldn’t make out what the preacher said any more, onaccount of the shouting and crying. Folks got up everywheres in thecrowd, and worked their way just by main strength to the mourners’bench, with the tears running down their faces; and when all themourners had got up there to the front benches in a crowd, they sungand shouted and flung themselves down on the straw, just crazy andwild.Well, the first I knowed the king got a-going, and you could hear himover everybody; and next he went a-charging up onto the platform, andthe preacher he begged him to speak to the people, and he done it. Hetold them he was a pirate—been a pirate for thirty years out in theIndian Ocean—and his crew was thinned out considerable last spring ina fight, and he was home now to take out some fresh men, and thanks togoodness he’d been robbed last night and put ashore off of a steamboatwithout a cent, and he was glad of it; it was the blessedest thingthat ever happened to him, because he was a changed man now, and happyfor the first time in his life; and, poor as he was, he was going tostart right off and work his way back to the Indian Ocean, and put inthe rest of his life trying to turn the pirates into the true path;for he could do it better than anybody else, being acquainted with allpirate crews in that ocean; and though it would take him a long timeto get there without money, he would get there anyway, and every timehe convinced a pirate he would say to him, “Don’t you thank me, don’tyou give me no credit; it all belongs to them dear people in Pokevillecamp-meeting, natural brothers and benefactors of the race, and thatdear preacher there, the truest friend a pirate ever had!”And then he busted into tears, and so did everybody. Then somebodysings out, “Take up a collection for him, take up a collection!” Well,a half a dozen made a jump to do it, but somebody sings out, “Let_him_ pass the hat around!” Then everybody said it, the preacher too.So the king went all through the crowd with his hat, swabbing hiseyes, and blessing the people and praising them and thanking them forbeing so good to the poor pirates away off there; and every littlewhile the prettiest kind of girls, with the tears running down theircheeks, would up and ask him would he let them kiss him for toremember him by; and he always done it; and some of them he hugged andkissed as many as five or six times—and he was invited to stay aweek; and everybody wanted him to live in their houses, and saidthey’d think it was an honor; but he said as this was the last day ofthe camp-meeting he couldn’t do no good, and besides he was in a sweatto get to the Indian Ocean right off and go to work on the pirates.When we got back to the raft and he come to count up he found he hadcollected eighty-seven dollars and seventy-five cents. And then he hadfetched away a three-gallon jug of whisky, too, that he found under awagon when he was starting home through the woods. The king said, takeit all around, it laid over any day he’d ever put in in themissionarying line. He said it warn’t no use talking, heathens don’tamount to shucks alongside of pirates to work a camp-meeting with.The duke was thinking _he’d_ been doing pretty well till the kingcome to show up, but after that he didn’t think so so much. Hehad set up and printed off two little jobs for farmers in thatprinting-office—horse bills—and took the money, four dollars. And hehad got in ten dollars’ worth of advertisements for the paper, whichhe said he would put in for four dollars if they would pay inadvance—so they done it. The price of the paper was two dollars ayear, but he took in three subscriptions for half a dollar apiece oncondition of them paying him in advance; they were going to pay incordwood and onions as usual, but he said he had just bought theconcern and knocked down the price as low as he could afford it, andwas going to run it for cash. He set up a little piece of poetry,which he made, himself, out of his own head—three verses—kind ofsweet and saddish—the name of it was, “Yes, crush, cold world, thisbreaking heart”—and he left that all set up and ready to print in thepaper, and didn’t charge nothing for it. Well, he took in nine dollarsand a half, and said he’d done a pretty square day’s work for it.Then he showed us another little job he’d printed and hadn’t chargedfor, because it was for us. It had a picture of a runaway nigger witha bundle on a stick over his shoulder, and “$200 reward” under it. Thereading was all about Jim and just described him to a dot. It said herun away from St. Jacques’s plantation, forty mile below New Orleans,last winter, and likely went north, and whoever would catch him andsend him back he could have the reward and expenses.“Now,” says the duke, “after to-night we can run in the daytime if wewant to. Whenever we see anybody coming we can tie Jim hand and footwith a rope, and lay him in the wigwam and show this handbill and saywe captured him up the river, and were too poor to travel on asteamboat, so we got this little raft on credit from our friends andare going down to get the reward. Handcuffs and chains would lookstill better on Jim, but it wouldn’t go well with the story of usbeing so poor. Too much like jewelry. Ropes are the correct thing—wemust preserve the unities, as we say on the boards.”We all said the duke was pretty smart, and there couldn’t be notrouble about running daytimes. We judged we could make miles enoughthat night to get out of the reach of the powwow we reckoned theduke’s work in the printing-office was going to make in that littletown; then we could boom right along if we wanted to.We laid low and kept still, and never shoved out till nearly teno’clock; then we slid by, pretty wide away from the town, and didn’thoist our lantern till we was clear out of sight of it.When Jim called me to take the watch at four in the morning, he says:“Huck, does you reck’n we gwyne to run acrost any mo’ kings on distrip?”“No,” I says, “I reckon not.”“Well,” says he, “dat’s all right, den. I doan’ mine one er two kings,but dat’s enough. Dis one’s powerful drunk, en de duke ain’ muchbetter.”I found Jim had been trying to get him to talk French, so he couldhear what it was like; but he said he had been in this country solong, and had so much trouble, he’d forgot it.CHAPTER XXIIt was after sun-up now, but we went right on and didn’t tie up. Theking and the duke turned out by and by looking pretty rusty; but afterthey’d jumped overboard and took a swim it chippered them up a gooddeal. After breakfast the king he took a seat on the corner of theraft, and pulled off his boots and rolled up his britches, and let hislegs dangle in the water, so as to be comfortable, and lit his pipe,and went to getting his “Romeo and Juliet” by heart. When he had gotit pretty good him and the duke begun to practise it together. Theduke had to learn him over and over again how to say every speech; andhe made him sigh, and put his hand on his heart, and after a while hesaid he done it pretty well; “only,” he says, “you mustn’t bellow out_Romeo!_ that way, like a bull—you must say it soft and sick andlanguishy, so—R-o-o-meo! that is the idea; for Juliet’s a dear sweetmere child of a girl, you know, and she doesn’t bray like a jackass.”Well, next they got out a couple of long swords that the duke made outof oak laths, and begun to practise the sword-fight—the duke calledhimself Richard III.; and the way they laid on and pranced around theraft was grand to see. But by and by the king tripped and felloverboard, and after that they took a rest, and had a talk about allkinds of adventures they’d had in other times along the river.After dinner the duke says:“Well, Capet, we’ll want to make this a first-class show, you know, soI guess we’ll add a little more to it. We want a little something toanswer encores with, anyway.”“What’s onkores, Bilgewater?”The duke told him, and then says:“I’ll answer by doing the Highland fling or the sailor’s hornpipe; andyou—well, let me see—oh, I’ve got it—you can do Hamlet’ssoliloquy.”“Hamlet’s which?”“Hamlet’s soliloquy, you know; the most celebrated thing inShakespeare. Ah, it’s sublime, sublime! Always fetches the house. Ihaven’t got it in the book—I’ve only got one volume—but I reckon Ican piece it out from memory. I’ll just walk up and down a minute, andsee if I can call it back from recollection’s vaults.”So he went to marching up and down, thinking, and frowning horribleevery now and then; then he would hoist up his eyebrows; next he wouldsqueeze his hand on his forehead and stagger back and kind of moan;next he would sigh, and next he’d let on to drop a tear. It wasbeautiful to see him. By and by he got it. He told us to giveattention. Then he strikes a most noble attitude, with one leg shovedforwards, and his arms stretched away up, and his head tilted back,looking up at the sky; and then he begins to rip and rave and grit histeeth; and after that, all through his speech, he howled, and spreadaround, and swelled up his chest, and just knocked the spots out ofany acting ever _I_ see before. This is the speech—I learned it, easyenough, while he was learning it to the king:    To be, or not to be; that is the bare bodkin    That makes calamity of so long life;    For who would fardels bear, till Birnam Wood do come to        Dunsinane,    But that the fear of something after death    Murders the innocent sleep,    Great nature’s second course,    And makes us rather sling the arrows of outrageous fortune    Than fly to others that we know not of.    There’s the respect must give us pause:    Wake Duncan with thy knocking! I would thou couldst;    For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,    The oppressor’s wrong, the proud man’s contumely,    The law’s delay, and the quietus which his pangs might take,    In the dead waste and middle of the night, when churchyards        yawn    In customary suits of solemn black,    But that the undiscovered country from whose bourne no        traveler returns,    Breathes forth contagion on the world,    And thus the native hue of resolution, like the poor cat i’ the        adage,    Is sicklied o’er with care,    And all the clouds that lowered o’er our housetops,    With this regard their currents turn awry,    And lose the name of action.    ’Tis a consummation devoutly to be wished. But soft you, the        fair Ophelia:    Ope not thy ponderous and marble jaws,    But get thee to a nunnery—go!Well, the old man he liked that speech, and he mighty soon got it sohe could do it first-rate. It seemed like he was just born for it; andwhen he had his hand in and was excited, it was perfectly lovely theway he would rip and tear and rair up behind when he was getting it off.The first chance we got the duke he had some show-bills printed; andafter that, for two or three days as we floated along, the raft was amost uncommon lively place, for there warn’t nothing but sword-fightingand rehearsing—as the duke called it—going on all the time. Onemorning, when we was pretty well down the state of Arkansaw, we comein sight of a little one-horse town in a big bend; so we tied up aboutthree-quarters of a mile above it, in the mouth of a crick which wasshut in like a tunnel by the cypress trees, and all of us but Jim tookthe canoe and went down there to see if there was any chance in thatplace for our show.We struck it mighty lucky; there was going to be a circus there thatafternoon, and the country-people was already beginning to come in, inall kinds of old shackly wagons, and on horses. The circus would leavebefore night, so our show would have a pretty good chance. The duke hehired the court house, and we went around and stuck up our bills. Theyread like this:    Shaksperean Revival ! ! !    Wonderful Attraction!    For One Night Only!    The world-renowned tragedians,    David Garrick the younger, of Drury Lane Theatre, London,       and    Edmund Kean the elder, of the Royal Haymarket Theatre,    Whitechapel, Pudding Lane, Piccadilly, London, and the    Royal Continental Theatres, in their sublime    Shaksperean Spectacle entitled    The Balcony Scene       in    Romeo and Juliet ! ! !    Romeo...................Mr. Garrick    Juliet..................Mr. Kean    Assisted by the whole strength of the company!    New costumes, new scenery, new appointments!       Also:    The thrilling, masterly, and blood-curdling    Broad-sword conflict    In Richard III. ! ! !    Richard III.............Mr. Garrick    Richmond................Mr. Kean       Also:    (by special request)    Hamlet’s Immortal Soliloquy ! !    By the Illustrious Kean!    Done by him 300 consecutive nights in Paris!    For One Night Only,    On account of imperative European engagements!    Admission 25 cents; children and servants, 10 cents.Then we went loafing around town. The stores and houses was most allold, shackly, dried-up frame concerns that hadn’t ever been painted;they was set up three or four foot above ground on stilts, so as to beout of reach of the water when the river was overflowed. The houseshad little gardens around them, but they didn’t seem to raise hardlyanything in them but jimpson weeds, and sunflowers, and ash-piles, andold curled-up boots and shoes, and pieces of bottles, and rags, andplayed-out tinware. The fences was made of different kinds of boards,nailed on at different times; and they leaned every which way, and hadgates that didn’t generly have but one hinge—a leather one. Some of thefences had been whitewashed some time or another, but the duke saidit was in Columbus’s time, like enough. There was generly hogs in thegarden, and people driving them out.All the stores was along one street. They had white domestic awnings infront, and the country-people hitched their horses to the awning-posts.There was empty dry-goods boxes under the awnings, and loafers roostingon them all day long, whittling them with their Barlow knives; andchawing tobacco, and gaping and yawning and stretching—a mighty ornerylot. They generly had on yellow straw hats most as wide as an umbrella,but didn’t wear no coats nor waistcoats; they called one another Bill,and Buck, and Hank, and Joe, and Andy, and talked lazy and drawly, andused considerable many cuss-words. There was as many as one loaferleaning up against every awning-post, and he most always had his handsin his britches pockets, except when he fetched them out to lend a chawof tobacco or scratch. What a body was hearing amongst them all thetime was:“Gimme a chaw ’v tobacker, Hank.”“Cain’t; I hain’t got but one chaw left. Ask Bill.”Maybe Bill he gives him a chaw; maybe he lies and says he ain’t gotnone. Some of them kinds of loafers never has a cent in the world,nor a chaw of tobacco of their own. They get all their chawing byborrowing; they say to a fellow, “I wisht you’d len’ me a chaw, Jack, Ijist this minute give Ben Thompson the last chaw I had”—which is a liepretty much every time; it don’t fool nobody but a stranger; but Jackain’t no stranger, so he says:“_You_ give him a chaw, did you? So did your sister’s cat’sgrandmother. You pay me back the chaws you’ve awready borry’d off’n me,Lafe Buckner, then I’ll loan you one or two ton of it, and won’t chargeyou no back intrust, nuther.”“Well, I _did_ pay you back some of it wunst.”“Yes, you did—’bout six chaws. You borry’d store tobacker and paid backnigger-head.”Store tobacco is flat black plug, but these fellows mostly chaws thenatural leaf twisted. When they borrow a chaw they don’t generly cutit off with a knife, but set the plug in between their teeth, and gnawwith their teeth and tug at the plug with their hands till they get itin two; then sometimes the one that owns the tobacco looks mournful atit when it’s handed back, and says, sarcastic:“Here, gimme the _chaw_, and you take the _plug_.”[Illustration: “GIMME A CHAW”]All the streets and lanes was just mud; they warn’t nothing else _but_mud—mud as black as tar and nigh about a foot deep in some places,and two or three inches deep in _all_ the places. The hogs loafed andgrunted around everywheres. You’d see a muddy sow and a litter of pigscome lazying along the street and whollop herself right down in theway, where folks had to walk around her, and she’d stretch out andshut her eyes and wave her ears whilst the pigs was milking her, andlook as happy as if she was on salary. And pretty soon you’d hear aloafer sing out, “Hi! _so_ boy! sick him, Tige!” and away the sow wouldgo, squealing most horrible, with a dog or two swinging to each ear,and three or four dozen more a-coming; and then you would see all theloafers get up and watch the thing out of sight, and laugh at the funand look grateful for the noise. Then they’d settle back again tillthere was a dog-fight. There couldn’t anything wake them up all over,and make them happy all over, like a dog-fight—unless it might beputting turpentine on a stray dog and setting fire to him, or tying atin pan to his tail and see him run himself to death.On the river-front some of the houses was sticking out over the bank,and they was bowed and bent, and about ready to tumble in. The peoplehad moved out of them. The bank was caved away under one corner of someothers, and that corner was hanging over. People lived in them yet, butit was dangersome, because sometimes a strip of land as wide as a housecaves in at a time. Sometimes a belt of land a quarter of a mile deepwill start in and cave along and cave along till it all caves into theriver in one summer. Such a town as that has to be always moving back,and back, and back, because the river’s always gnawing at it.The nearer it got to noon that day the thicker and thicker was thewagons and horses in the streets, and more coming all the time.Families fetched their dinners with them from the country, and eat themin the wagons. There was considerable whisky-drinking going on, and Iseen three fights. By and by somebody sings out:“Here comes old Boggs!—in from the country for his little old monthlydrunk; here he comes, boys!”All the loafers looked glad; I reckoned they was used to having fun outof Boggs. One of them says:“Wonder who he’s a-gwyne to chaw up this time. If he’d a-chawed up allthe men he’s ben a-gwyne to chaw up in the last twenty year he’d haveconsiderable ruputation now.”Another one says, “I wisht old Boggs ’d threaten me, ’cuz then I’d knowI warn’t gwyne to die for a thousan’ year.”Boggs comes a-tearing along on his horse, whooping and yelling like anInjun, and singing out:“Cler the track, thar. I’m on the waw-path, and the price uv coffins isa-gwyne to raise.”He was drunk, and weaving about in his saddle; he was over fifty yearold, and had a very red face. Everybody yelled at him and laughed athim and sassed him, and he sassed back, and said he’d attend to themand lay them out in their regular turns, but he couldn’t wait nowbecause he’d come to town to kill old Colonel Sherburn, and his mottowas, “Meat first, and spoon vittles to top off on.”He see me, and rode up and says:“Whar’d you come f’m, boy? You prepared to die?”Then he rode on. I was scared, but a man says:“He don’t mean nothing; he’s always a-carryin’ on like that when he’sdrunk. He’s the best-naturedest old fool in Arkansaw—never hurt nobody,drunk nor sober.”Boggs rode up before the biggest store in town, and bent his head downso he could see under the curtain of the awning and yells:“Come out here, Sherburn! Come out and meet the man you’ve swindled.You’re the houn’ I’m after, and I’m a-gwyne to have you, too!”And so he went on, calling Sherburn everything he could lay his tongueto, and the whole street packed with people listening and laughing andgoing on. By and by a proud-looking man about fifty-five—and he was aheap the best-dressed man in that town, too—steps out of the store, andthe crowd drops back on each side to let him come. He says to Boggs,mighty ca’m and slow—he says:“I’m tired of this, but I’ll endure it till one o’clock. Till oneo’clock, mind—no longer. If you open your mouth against me only onceafter that time you can’t travel so far but I will find you.”Then he turns and goes in. The crowd looked mighty sober; nobodystirred, and there warn’t no more laughing. Boggs rode offblackguarding Sherburn as loud as he could yell, all down the street;and pretty soon back he comes and stops before the store, still keepingit up. Some men crowded around him and tried to get him to shut up, buthe wouldn’t; they told him it would be one o’clock in about fifteenminutes, and so he _must_ go home—he must go right away. But it didn’tdo no good. He cussed away with all his might, and throwed his hat downin the mud and rode over it, and pretty soon away he went a-raging downthe street again, with his gray hair a-flying. Everybody that couldget a chance at him tried their best to coax him off of his horse sothey could lock him up and get him sober; but it warn’t no use—up thestreet he would tear again, and give Sherburn another cussing. By andby somebody says:“Go for his daughter!—quick, go for his daughter; sometimes he’lllisten to her. If anybody can persuade him, she can.”So somebody started on a run. I walked down street a ways and stopped.In about five or ten minutes here comes Boggs again, but not on hishorse. He was a-reeling across the street towards me, bareheaded, witha friend on both sides of him a-holt of his arms and hurrying himalong. He was quiet, and looked uneasy; and he warn’t hanging back any,but was doing some of the hurrying himself. Somebody sings out:“Boggs!”I looked over there to see who said it, and it was that ColonelSherburn. He was standing perfectly still in the street, and had apistol raised in his right hand—not aiming it, but holding it out withthe barrel tilted up towards the sky. The same second I see a younggirl coming on the run, and two men with her. Boggs and the men turnedround to see who called him, and when they see the pistol the menjumped to one side, and the pistol-barrel come down slow and steadyto a level—both barrels cocked. Boggs throws up both of his hands andsays, “O Lord, don’t shoot!” Bang! goes the first shot, and he staggersback, clawing at the air—bang! goes the second one, and he tumblesbackwards onto the ground, heavy and solid, with his arms spread out.That young girl screamed out and comes rushing, and down she throwsherself on her father, crying, and saying, “Oh, he’s killed him, he’skilled him!” The crowd closed up around them, and shouldered and jammedone another, with their necks stretched, trying to see, and people onthe inside trying to shove them back and shouting, “Back, back! givehim air, give him air!”Colonel Sherburn he tossed his pistol onto the ground, and turnedaround on his heels and walked off.They took Boggs to a little drug store, the crowd pressing around justthe same, and the whole town following, and I rushed and got a goodplace at the window, where I was close to him and could see in. Theylaid him on the floor and put one large Bible under his head, andopened another one and spread it on his breast; but they tore open hisshirt first, and I seen where one of the bullets went in. He made abouta dozen long gasps, his breast lifting the Bible up when he drawedin his breath, and letting it down again when he breathed it out—andafter that he laid still; he was dead. Then they pulled his daughteraway from him, screaming and crying, and took her off. She was aboutsixteen, and very sweet and gentle looking, but awful pale and scared.Well, pretty soon the whole town was there, squirming and scrouging andpushing and shoving to get at the window and have a look, but peoplethat had the places wouldn’t give them up, and folks behind them wassaying all the time, “Say, now, you’ve looked enough, you fellows;’tain’t right and ’tain’t fair for you to stay thar all the time, andnever give nobody a chance; other folks has their rights as well asyou.”There was considerable jawing back, so I slid out, thinking maybethere was going to be trouble. The streets was full, and everybody wasexcited. Everybody that seen the shooting was telling how it happened,and there was a big crowd packed around each one of these fellows,stretching their necks and listening. One long, lanky man, with longhair and a big white fur stovepipe hat on the back of his head, and acrooked-handled cane, marked out the places on the ground where Boggsstood and where Sherburn stood, and the people following him aroundfrom one place to t’other and watching everything he done, and bobbingtheir heads to show they understood, and stooping a little and restingtheir hands on their thighs to watch him mark the places on the groundwith his cane; and then he stood up straight and stiff where Sherburnhad stood, frowning and having his hat-brim down over his eyes, andsung out, “Boggs!” and then fetched his cane down slow to a level, andsays “Bang!” staggered backwards, says “Bang!” again, and fell downflat on his back. The people that had seen the thing said he done itperfect; said it was just exactly the way it all happened. Then as muchas a dozen people got out their bottles and treated him.Well, by and by somebody said Sherburn ought to be lynched. In about aminute everybody was saying it; so away they went, mad and yelling, andsnatching down every clothes-line they come to to do the hanging with.CHAPTER XXIIThey swarmed up towards Sherburn’s house, a-whooping and raging likeInjuns, and everything had to clear the way or get run over and trompedto mush, and it was awful to see. Children was heeling it ahead of themob, screaming and trying to get out of the way; and every window alongthe road was full of women’s heads, and there was nigger boys in everytree, and bucks and wenches looking over every fence; and as soon asthe mob would get nearly to them they would break and skaddle back outof reach. Lots of the women and girls was crying and taking on, scaredmost to death.They swarmed up in front of Sherburn’s palings as thick as they couldjam together, and you couldn’t hear yourself think for the noise. Itwas a little twenty-foot yard. Some sung out “Tear down the fence! teardown the fence!” Then there was a racket of ripping and tearing andsmashing, and down she goes, and the front wall of the crowd begins toroll in like a wave.Just then Sherburn steps out onto the roof of his little front porch,with a double-barrel gun in his hand, and takes his stand, perfectlyca’m and deliberate, not saying a word. The racket stopped, and thewave sucked back.Sherburn never said a word—just stood there, looking down. Thestillness was awful creepy and uncomfortable. Sherburn run his eyeslow along the crowd; and wherever it struck the people tried a littleto outgaze him, but they couldn’t; they dropped their eyes and lookedsneaky. Then pretty soon Sherburn sort of laughed; not the pleasantkind, but the kind that makes you feel like when you are eating breadthat’s got sand in it.Then he says, slow and scornful:“The idea of _you_ lynching anybody! It’s amusing. The idea of youthinking you had pluck enough to lynch a _man!_ Because you’re braveenough to tar and feather poor friendless cast-out women that comealong here, did that make you think you had grit enough to lay yourhands on a _man?_ Why, a _man’s_ safe in the hands of ten thousand ofyour kind—as long as it’s daytime and you’re not behind him.“Do I know you? I know you clear through. I was born and raised in theSouth, and I’ve lived in the North; so I know the average all around.The average man’s a coward. In the North he lets anybody walk over himthat wants to, and goes home and prays for a humble spirit to bearit. In the South one man, all by himself, has stopped a stage fullof men in the daytime, and robbed the lot. Your newspapers call youa brave people so much that you think you are braver than any otherpeople—whereas you’re just _as_ brave, and no braver. Why don’t yourjuries hang murderers? Because they’re afraid the man’s friends willshoot them in the back, in the dark—and it’s just what they _would_ do.“So they always acquit; and then a _man_ goes in the night, with ahundred masked cowards at his back, and lynches the rascal. Yourmistake is, that you didn’t bring a man with you; that’s one mistake,and the other is that you didn’t come in the dark and fetch your masks.You brought _part_ of a man—Buck Harkness, there—and if you hadn’t hadhim to start you, you’d ’a’ taken it out in blowing.“You didn’t want to come. The average man don’t like trouble anddanger. _You_ don’t like trouble and danger. But if only _half_ aman—like Buck Harkness, there—shouts ’Lynch him! lynch him!’ you’reafraid to back down—afraid you’ll be found out to be what youare—_cowards_—and so you raise a yell, and hang yourselves onto thathalf-a-man’s coat-tail, and come raging up here, swearing what bigthings you’re going to do. The pitifulest thing out is a mob; that’swhat an army is—a mob; they don’t fight with courage that’s born inthem, but with courage that’s borrowed from their mass, and from theirofficers. But a mob without any _man_ at the head of it is _beneath_pitifulness. Now the thing for _you_ to do is to droop your tails andgo home and crawl in a hole. If any real lynching’s going to be done itwill be done in the dark, Southern fashion; and when they come they’llbring their masks, and fetch a _man_ along. Now _leave_—and take yourhalf-a-man with you”—tossing his gun up across his left arm and cockingit when he says this.The crowd washed back sudden, and then broke all apart, and wenttearing off every which way, and Buck Harkness he heeled it after them,looking tolerable cheap. I could ’a’ stayed if I wanted to, but Ididn’t want to.I went to the circus and loafed around the back side till the watchmanwent by, and then dived in under the tent. I had my twenty-dollar goldpiece and some other money, but I reckoned I better save it, becausethere ain’t no telling how soon you are going to need it, away fromhome and amongst strangers that way. You can’t be too careful. I ain’topposed to spending money on circuses when there ain’t no other way,but there ain’t no use in _wasting_ it on them.It was a real bully circus. It was the splendidest sight that ever waswhen they all come riding in, two and two, and gentleman and lady,side by side, the men just in their drawers and undershirts, and noshoes nor stirrups, and resting their hands on their thighs easy andcomfortable—there must ’a’ been twenty of them—and every lady witha lovely complexion, and perfectly beautiful, and looking just likea gang of real sure-enough queens, and dressed in clothes that costmillions of dollars, and just littered with diamonds. It was a powerfulfine sight; I never see anything so lovely. And then one by one theygot up and stood, and went a-weaving around the ring so gentle andwavy and graceful, the men looking ever so tall and airy and straight,with their heads bobbing and skimming along, away up there under thetent-roof, and every lady’s rose-leafy dress flapping soft and silkyaround her hips, and she looking like the most loveliest parasol.And then faster and faster they went, all of them dancing, firstone foot out in the air and then the other, the horses leaning moreand more, and the ringmaster going round and round the center pole,cracking his whip and shouting “Hi!—hi!” and the clown cracking jokesbehind him; and by and by all hands dropped the reins, and every ladyput her knuckles on her hips and every gentleman folded his arms, andthen how the horses did lean over and hump themselves! And so one afterthe other they all skipped off into the ring, and made the sweetest bowI ever see, and then scampered out, and everybody clapped their handsand went just about wild.Well, all through the circus they done the most astonishing things;and all the time that clown carried on so it most killed the people.The ringmaster couldn’t ever say a word to him but he was back at himquick as a wink with the funniest things a body ever said; and howhe ever _could_ think of so many of them, and so sudden and so pat,was what I couldn’t no way understand. Why, I couldn’t ’a’ thoughtof them in a year. And by and by a drunken man tried to get into thering—said he wanted to ride; said he could ride as well as anybodythat ever was. They argued and tried to keep him out, but he wouldn’tlisten, and the whole show come to a standstill. Then the people begunto holler at him and make fun of him, and that made him mad, and hebegun to rip and tear; so that stirred up the people, and a lot ofmen begun to pile down off of the benches and swarm toward the ring,saying, “Knock him down! throw him out!” and one or two women begun toscream. So, then, the ringmaster he made a little speech, and said hehoped there wouldn’t be no disturbance, and if the man would promisehe wouldn’t make no more trouble he would let him ride if he thoughthe could stay on the horse. So everybody laughed and said all right,and the man got on. The minute he was on, the horse begun to rip andtear and jump and cavort around, with two circus men hanging on to hisbridle trying to hold him, and the drunk man hanging on to his neck,and his heels flying in the air every jump, and the whole crowd ofpeople standing up shouting and laughing till tears rolled down. And atlast, sure enough, all the circus men could do, the horse broke loose,and away he went like the very nation, round and round the ring, withthat sot laying down on him and hanging to his neck, with first oneleg hanging most to the ground on one side, and then t’other one ont’other side, and the people just crazy. It warn’t funny to me, though;I was all of a tremble to see his danger. But pretty soon he struggledup astraddle and grabbed the bridle, a-reeling this way and that; andthe next minute he sprung up and dropped the bridle and stood! andthe horse a-going like a house afire, too. He just stood up there,a-sailing around as easy and comfortable as if he warn’t ever drunk inhis life—and then he begun to pull off his clothes and sling them. Heshed them so thick they kind of clogged up the air, and altogether heshed seventeen suits. And, then, there he was, slim and handsome, anddressed the gaudiest and prettiest you ever saw, and he lit into thathorse with his whip and made him fairly hum—and finally skipped off,and made his bow and danced off to the dressing-room, and everybodyjust a-howling with pleasure and astonishment.Then the ringmaster he see how he had been fooled, and he _was_ thesickest ringmaster you ever see, I reckon. Why, it was one of hisown men! He had got up that joke all out of his own head, and neverlet on to nobody. Well, I felt sheepish enough to be took in so, butI wouldn’t ’a’ been in that ringmaster’s place, not for a thousanddollars. I don’t know; there may be bullier circuses than what that onewas, but I never struck them yet. Anyways, it was plenty good enoughfor _me_; and wherever I run across it, it can have all of _my_ customevery time.Well, that night we had _our_ show; but there warn’t only about twelvepeople there—just enough to pay expenses. And they laughed all thetime, and that made the duke mad; and everybody left, anyway, beforethe show was over, but one boy which was asleep. So the duke said theseArkansaw lunkheads couldn’t come up to Shakespeare; what they wantedwas low comedy—and maybe something ruther worse than low comedy, hereckoned. He said he could size their style. So next morning he gotsome big sheets of wrapping-paper and some black paint, and drawed offsome handbills, and stuck them up all over the village. The bills said:   AT THE COURT HOUSE!   FOR 3 NIGHTS ONLY!   _The World-Renowned Tragedians_   DAVID GARRICK THE YOUNGER!      AND   EDMUND KEAN THE ELDER!   _Of the London and Continental   Theatres_,   In their Thrilling Tragedy of   THE KING’S CAMELEOPARD,      OR   THE ROYAL NONESUCH ! ! !   _Admission 50 cents._Then at the bottom was the biggest line of all, which said:   LADIES AND CHILDREN NOT ADMITTED“There,” says he, “if that line don’t fetch them, I don’t knowArkansaw!”CHAPTER XXIIIWell, all day him and the king was hard at it, rigging up a stage anda curtain and a row of candles for footlights; and that night thehouse was jam full of men in no time. When the place couldn’t hold nomore, the duke he quit tending door and went around the back way andcome onto the stage and stood up before the curtain and made a littlespeech, and praised up this tragedy, and said it was the mostthrillingest one that ever was; and so he went on a-bragging about thetragedy, and about Edmund Kean the Elder, which was to play the mainprincipal part in it; and at last when he’d got everybody’sexpectations up high enough, he rolled up the curtain, and the nextminute the king come a-prancing out on all fours, naked; and he waspainted all over, ring-streaked-and-striped, all sorts of colors, assplendid as a rainbow. And—but never mind the rest of his outfit; itwas just wild, but it was awful funny. The people most killedthemselves laughing; and when the king got done capering and caperedoff behind the scenes, they roared and clapped and stormed andhaw-hawed till he come back and done it over again, and after thatthey made him do it another time. Well, it would make a cow laugh tosee the shines that old idiot cut.Then the duke he lets the curtain down, and bows to the people, andsays the great tragedy will be performed only two nights more, onaccounts of pressing London engagements, where the seats is all soldalready for it in Drury Lane; and then he makes them another bow, andsays if he has succeeded in pleasing them and instructing them, hewill be deeply obleeged if they will mention it to their friends andget them to come and see it.Twenty people sings out:“What, is it over? Is that _all_?”The duke says yes. Then there was a fine time. Everybody sings out,“Sold!” and rose up mad, and was a-going for that stage and themtragedians. But a big, fine-looking man jumps up on a bench andshouts:“Hold on! Just a word, gentlemen.” They stopped to listen. “We aresold—mighty badly sold. But we don’t want to be the laughing-stock ofthis whole town, I reckon, and never hear the last of this thing aslong as we live. _No_. What we want is to go out of here quiet, andtalk this show up, and sell the _rest_ of the town! Then we’ll all bein the same boat. Ain’t that sensible?” (“You bet it is!—the jedge isright!” everybody sings out.) “All right, then—not a word about anysell. Go along home, and advise everybody to come and see thetragedy.”Next day you couldn’t hear nothing around that town but how splendidthat show was. House was jammed again that night, and we sold thiscrowd the same way. When me and the king and the duke got home to theraft we all had a supper; and by and by, about midnight, they made Jimand me back her out and float her down the middle of the river, andfetch her in and hide her about two mile below town.The third night the house was crammed again—and they warn’tnew-comers this time, but people that was at the show the other twonights. I stood by the duke at the door, and I see that every man thatwent in had his pockets bulging, or something muffled up under hiscoat—and I see it warn’t no perfumery, neither, not by a long sight.I smelt sickly eggs by the barrel, and rotten cabbages, and suchthings; and if I know the signs of a dead cat being around, and I betI do, there was sixty-four of them went in. I shoved in there for aminute, but it was too various for me; I couldn’t stand it. Well, whenthe place couldn’t hold no more people the duke he give a fellow aquarter and told him to tend door for him a minute, and then hestarted around for the stage door, I after him; but the minute weturned the corner and was in the dark he says:“Walk fast now till you get away from the houses, and then shin forthe raft like the dickens was after you!”I done it, and he done the same. We struck the raft at the same time,and in less than two seconds we was gliding down-stream, all dark andstill, and edging towards the middle of the river, nobody saying aword. I reckoned the poor king was in for a gaudy time of it with theaudience, but nothing of the sort; pretty soon he crawls out fromunder the wigwam, and says:“Well, how’d the old thing pan out this time, duke?” He hadn’t beenup-town at all.We never showed a light till we was about ten mile below the village.Then we lit up and had a supper, and the king and the duke fairlylaughed their bones loose over the way they’d served them people. Theduke says:“Greenhorns, flatheads! _I_ knew the first house would keep mum and letthe rest of the town get roped in; and I knew they’d lay for us thethird night, and consider it was _their_ turn now. Well, it _is_ theirturn, and I’d give something to know how much they’d take for it. I_would_ just like to know how they’re putting in their opportunity.They can turn it into a picnic if they want to—they brought plentyprovisions.”Them rapscallions took in four hundred and sixty-five dollars in thatthree nights. I never see money hauled in by the wagon-load like thatbefore.By and by, when they was asleep and snoring, Jim says:“Don’t it s’prise you de way dem kings carries on, Huck?”“No,” I says, “it don’t.”“Why don’t it, Huck?”“Well, it don’t, because it’s in the breed. I reckon they’re allalike.”“But, Huck, dese kings o’ ourn is reglar rapscallions; dat’s jist whatdey is; dey’s reglar rapscallions.”“Well, that’s what I’m a-saying; all kings is mostly rapscallions, asfur as I can make out.”“Is dat so?”“You read about them once—you’ll see. Look at Henry the Eight; this’n’ ’s a Sunday-school Superintendent to _him_. And look at CharlesSecond, and Louis Fourteen, and Louis Fifteen, and James Second, andEdward Second, and Richard Third, and forty more; besides all themSaxon heptarchies that used to rip around so in old times and raiseCain. My, you ought to seen old Henry the Eight when he was in bloom.He _was_ a blossom. He used to marry a new wife every day, and chopoff her head next morning. And he would do it just as indifferent asif he was ordering up eggs. ’Fetch up Nell Gwynn,’ he says. They fetchher up. Next morning, ’Chop off her head!’ And they chop it off.’Fetch up Jane Shore,’ he says; and up she comes. Next morning, ’Chopoff her head’—and they chop it off. ’Ring up Fair Rosamun.’ FairRosamun answers the bell. Next morning, ’Chop off her head.’ And hemade every one of them tell him a tale every night; and he kept thatup till he had hogged a thousand and one tales that way, and then heput them all in a book, and called it Domesday Book—which was a goodname and stated the case. You don’t know kings, Jim, but I know them;and this old rip of ourn is one of the cleanest I’ve struck inhistory. Well, Henry he takes a notion he wants to get up some troublewith this country. How does he go at it—give notice?—give thecountry a show? No. All of a sudden he heaves all the tea in BostonHarbor overboard, and whacks out a declaration of independence, anddares them to come on. That was _his_ style—he never give anybody achance. He had suspicions of his father, the Duke of Wellington. Well,what did he do? Ask him to show up? No—drownded him in a butt ofmamsey, like a cat. S’pose people left money laying around where hewas—what did he do? He collared it. S’pose he contracted to do athing, and you paid him, and didn’t set down there and see that hedone it—what did he do? He always done the other thing. S’pose heopened his mouth—what then? If he didn’t shut it up powerful quickhe’d lose a lie every time. That’s the kind of a bug Henry was; and ifwe’d ’a’ had him along ’stead of our kings he’d ’a’ fooled that town aheap worse than ourn done. I don’t say that ourn is lambs, becausethey ain’t, when you come right down to the cold facts; but they ain’tnothing to _that_ old ram, anyway. All I say is, kings is kings, andyou got to make allowances. Take them all around, they’re a mightyornery lot. It’s the way they’re raised.”“But dis one do _smell_ so like de nation, Huck.”“Well, they all do, Jim. _We_ can’t help the way a king smells; historydon’t tell no way.”“Now de duke, he’s a tolerble likely man in some ways.”“Yes, a duke’s different. But not very different. This one’s amiddling hard lot for a duke. When he’s drunk there ain’t nonear-sighted man could tell him from a king.”“Well, anyways, I doan’ hanker for no mo’ un um, Huck. Dese is all Ikin stan’.”“It’s the way I feel, too, Jim. But we’ve got them on our hands, andwe got to remember what they are, and make allowances. Sometimes Iwish we could hear of a country that’s out of kings.”What was the use to tell Jim these warn’t real kings and dukes? Itwouldn’t ’a’ done no good; and, besides, it was just as I said: youcouldn’t tell them from the real kind.I went to sleep, and Jim didn’t call me when it was my turn. He oftendone that. When I waked up just at daybreak he was sitting there withhis head down betwixt his knees, moaning and mourning to himself. Ididn’t take notice nor let on. I knowed what it was about. He wasthinking about his wife and his children, away up yonder, and he waslow and homesick; because he hadn’t ever been away from home before inhis life; and I do believe he cared just as much for his people aswhite folks does for their’n. It don’t seem natural, but I reckon it’sso. He was often moaning and mourning that way nights, when he judgedI was asleep, and saying, “Po’ little ’Lizabeth! po’ little Johnny!it’s mighty hard; I spec’ I ain’t ever gwyne to see you no mo’, nomo’!” He was a mighty good nigger, Jim was.But this time I somehow got to talking to him about his wife and youngones; and by and by he says:“What makes me feel so bad dis time ’uz bekase I hear sumpn overyonder on de bank like a whack, er a slam, while ago, en it mine me erde time I treat my little ’Lizabeth so ornery. She warn’t on’y ’boutfo’ year ole, en she tuck de sk’yarlet fever, en had a powful roughspell; but she got well, en one day she was a-stannin’ aroun’, en Isays to her, I says:“‘Shet de do’.’“She never done it; jis’ stood dah, kiner smilin’ up at me. It make memad; en I says ag’in, mighty loud, I says:“‘Doan’ you hear me? Shet de do’!”“She jis stood de same way, kiner smilin’ up. I was a-bilin’! I says:“‘I lay I _make_ you mine!’“En wid dat I fetch’ her a slap side de head dat sont her a-sprawlin’.Den I went into de yuther room, en ’uz gone ’bout ten minutes; en whenI come back dah was dat do’ a-stannin’ open _yit_, en dat chilestannin’ mos’ right in it, a-lookin’ down and mournin’, en de tearsrunnin’ down. My, but I _wuz_ mad! I was a-gwyne for de chile, butjis’ den—it was a do’ dat open innerds—jis’ den, ’long come de winden slam it to, behine de chile, ker-_blam!_—en my lan’, de chilenever move’! My breff mos’ hop outer me; en I feel so—so—I doan’know _how_ I feel. I crope out, all a-tremblin’, en crope aroun’ enopen de do’ easy en slow, en poke my head in behine de chile, sof’ enstill, en all uv a sudden I says _pow!_ jis’ as loud as I could yell._She never budge!_ Oh, Huck, I bust out a-cryin’ en grab her up in myarms, en say, ‘Oh, de po’ little thing! De Lord God Amighty fogive po’ole Jim, kaze he never gwyne to fogive hisself as long’s he live!’ Oh,she was plumb deef en dumb, Huck, plumb deef en dumb—en I’d bena-treat’n her so!”CHAPTER XXIVNext day, towards night, we laid up under a little willow towhead outin the middle, where there was a village on each side of the river,and the duke and the king begun to lay out a plan for working themtowns. Jim he spoke to the duke, and said he hoped it wouldn’t takebut a few hours, because it got mighty heavy and tiresome to him whenhe had to lay all day in the wigwam tied with the rope. You see, whenwe left him all alone we had to tie him, because if anybody happenedon to him all by himself and not tied it wouldn’t look much like hewas a runaway nigger, you know. So the duke said it _was_ kind of hardto have to lay roped all day, and he’d cipher out some way to getaround it.He was uncommon bright, the duke was, and he soon struck it. Hedressed Jim up in King Lear’s outfit—it was a long curtain-calicogown, and a white horse-hair wig and whiskers; and then he took histheater paint and painted Jim’s face and hands and ears and neck allover a dead, dull solid blue, like a man that’s been drownded ninedays. Blamed if he warn’t the horriblest-looking outrage I ever see.Then the duke took and wrote out a sign on a shingle so:_Sick Arab—but harmless when not out of his head._And he nailed that shingle to a lath, and stood the lath up four orfive foot in front of the wigwam. Jim was satisfied. He said it was asight better than lying tied a couple of years every day, andtrembling all over every time there was a sound. The duke told him tomake himself free and easy, and if anybody ever come meddling around,he must hop out of the wigwam, and carry on a little, and fetch a howlor two like a wild beast, and he reckoned they would light out andleave him alone. Which was sound enough judgment; but you take theaverage man, and he wouldn’t wait for him to howl. Why, he didn’t onlylook like he was dead, he looked considerable more than that.These rapscallions wanted to try the Nonesuch again, because there wasso much money in it, but they judged it wouldn’t be safe, becausemaybe the news might ’a’ worked along down by this time. They couldn’thit no project that suited exactly; so at last the duke said hereckoned he’d lay off and work his brains an hour or two and see if hecouldn’t put up something on the Arkansaw village; and the king heallowed he would drop over to t’other village without any plan, butjust trust in Providence to lead him the profitable way—meaning thedevil, I reckon. We had all bought store clothes where we stoppedlast; and now the king put his’n on, and he told me to put mine on. Idone it, of course. The king’s duds was all black, and he did lookreal swell and starchy. I never knowed how clothes could change a bodybefore. Why, before, he looked like the orneriest old rip that everwas; but now, when he’d take off his new white beaver and make a bowand do a smile, he looked that grand and good and pious that you’d sayhe had walked right out of the ark, and maybe was old Leviticushimself. Jim cleaned up the canoe, and I got my paddle ready. Therewas a big steamboat laying at the shore away up under the point, aboutthree mile above the town—been there a couple of hours, taking onfreight. Says the king:“Seein’ how I’m dressed, I reckon maybe I better arrive down from St.Louis or Cincinnati, or some other big place. Go for the steamboat,Huckleberry; we’ll come down to the village on her.”I didn’t have to be ordered twice to go and take a steamboat ride. Ifetched the shore a half a mile above the village, and then wentscooting along the bluff bank in the easy water. Pretty soon we cometo a nice innocent-looking young country jake setting on a logswabbing the sweat off of his face, for it was powerful warm weather;and he had a couple of big carpet-bags by him.“Run her nose inshore,” says the king. I done it. “Wher’ you boundfor, young man?”“For the steamboat; going to Orleans.”“Git aboard,” says the king. “Hold on a minute, my servant ’llhe’p you with them bags. Jump out and he’p the gentleman,Adolphus”—meaning me, I see.I done so, and then we all three started on again. The young chap wasmighty thankful; said it was tough work toting his baggage suchweather. He asked the king where he was going, and the king told himhe’d come down the river and landed at the other village this morning,and now he was going up a few mile to see an old friend on a farm upthere. The young fellow says:“When I first see you I says to myself, ’It’s Mr. Wilks, sure, and hecome mighty near getting here in time.’ But then I says again, ’No, Ireckon it ain’t him, or else he wouldn’t be paddling up the river.’You _ain’t_ him, are you?”“No, my name’s Blodgett—Elexander Blodgett—_Reverend_ ElexanderBlodgett, I s’pose I must say, as I’m one o’ the Lord’s poor servants.But still I’m jist as able to be sorry for Mr. Wilks for not arrivingin time, all the same, if he’s missed anything by it—which I hope hehasn’t.”“Well, he don’t miss any property by it, because he’ll get that allright; but he’s missed seeing his brother Peter die—which he mayn’tmind, nobody can tell as to that—but his brother would ’a’ giveanything in this world to see _him_ before he died; never talked aboutnothing else all these three weeks; hadn’t seen him since they wasboys together—and hadn’t ever seen his brother William at all—that’sthe deef and dumb one—William ain’t more than thirty or thirty-five.Peter and George were the only ones that come out here; George was themarried brother; him and his wife both died last year. Harvey andWilliam’s the only ones that’s left now; and, as I was saying, theyhaven’t got here in time.”“Did anybody send ’em word?”“Oh, yes; a month or two ago, when Peter was first took; because Petersaid then that he sorter felt like he warn’t going to get well thistime. You see, he was pretty old, and George’s g’yirls was too youngto be much company for him, except Mary Jane, the red-headed one; andso he was kinder lonesome after George and his wife died, and didn’tseem to care much to live. He most desperately wanted to seeHarvey—and William, too, for that matter—because he was one of themkind that can’t bear to make a will. He left a letter behind forHarvey, and said he’d told in it where his money was hid, and how hewanted the rest of the property divided up so George’s g’yirls wouldbe all right—for George didn’t leave nothing. And that letter was allthey could get him to put a pen to.”“Why do you reckon Harvey don’t come? Wher’ does he live?”“Oh, he lives in England—Sheffield—preaches there—hasn’t ever beenin this country. He hasn’t had any too much time—and besides hemightn’t ’a’ got the letter at all, you know.”“Too bad, too bad he couldn’t ’a’ lived to see his brothers, poorsoul. You going to Orleans, you say?”“Yes, but that ain’t only a part of it. I’m going in a ship, nextWednesday, for Ryo Janeero, where my uncle lives.”“It’s a pretty long journey. But it’ll be lovely; I wisht I wasa-going. Is Mary Jane the oldest? How old is the others?”“Mary Jane’s nineteen, Susan’s fifteen, and Joanna’s aboutfourteen—that’s the one that gives herself to good works and has ahare-lip.”“Poor things! to be left alone in the cold world so.”“Well, they could be worse off. Old Peter had friends, and they ain’tgoing to let them come to no harm. There’s Hobson, the Babtis’preacher; and Deacon Lot Hovey, and Ben Rucker, and Abner Shackleford,and Levi Bell, the lawyer; and Dr. Robinson, and their wives, and thewidow Bartley, and—well, there’s a lot of them; but these are theones that Peter was thickest with, and used to write about sometimes,when he wrote home; so Harvey ’ll know where to look for friends whenhe gets here.”Well, the old man went on asking questions till he just fairly emptiedthat young fellow. Blamed if he didn’t inquire about everybody andeverything in that blessed town, and all about the Wilkses; and aboutPeter’s business—which was a tanner; and about George’s—which was acarpenter; and about Harvey’s—which was a dissentering minister; andso on, and so on. Then he says:“What did you want to walk all the way up to the steamboat for?”“Because she’s a big Orleans boat, and I was afeard she mightn’t stopthere. When they’re deep they won’t stop for a hail. A Cincinnati boatwill, but this is a St. Louis one.”“Was Peter Wilks well off?”“Oh, yes, pretty well off. He had houses and land, and it’s reckonedhe left three or four thousand in cash hid up som’ers.”“When did you say he died?”“I didn’t say, but it was last night.”“Funeral to-morrow, likely?”“Yes, ’bout the middle of the day.”“Well, it’s all terrible sad; but we’ve all got to go, one time oranother. So what we want to do is to be prepared; then we’re allright.”“Yes, sir, it’s the best way. Ma used to always say that.”When we struck the boat she was about done loading, and pretty soonshe got off. The king never said nothing about going aboard, so I lostmy ride, after all. When the boat was gone the king made me paddle upanother mile to a lonesome place, and then he got ashore and says:“Now hustle back, right off, and fetch the duke up here, and the newcarpet-bags. And if he’s gone over to t’other side, go over there andgit him. And tell him to git himself up regardless. Shove along, now.”I see what _he_ was up to; but I never said nothing, of course. When Igot back with the duke we hid the canoe, and then they set down on alog, and the king told him everything, just like the young fellow hadsaid it—every last word of it. And all the time he was a-doing it hetried to talk like an Englishman; and he done it pretty well, too, fora slouch. I can’t imitate him, and so I ain’t a-going to try to; buthe really done it pretty good. Then he says:“How are you on the deef and dumb, Bilgewater?”The duke said, leave him alone for that; said he had played a deef anddumb person on the histrionic boards. So then they waited for asteamboat.About the middle of the afternoon a couple of little boats come along,but they didn’t come from high enough up the river; but at last therewas a big one, and they hailed her. She sent out her yawl, and we wentaboard, and she was from Cincinnati; and when they found we onlywanted to go four or five mile they was booming mad, and gave us acussing, and said they wouldn’t land us. But the king was ca’m. Hesays:“If gentlemen kin afford to pay a dollar a mile apiece to be took onand put off in a yawl, a steamboat kin afford to carry ’em, can’t it?”So they softened down and said it was all right; and when we got tothe village they yawled us ashore. About two dozen men flocked downwhen they see the yawl a-coming, and when the king says:“Kin any of you gentlemen tell me wher’ Mr. Peter Wilks lives?” theygive a glance at one another, and nodded their heads, as much as tosay, “What ’d I tell you?” Then one of them says, kind of soft andgentle:“I’m sorry, sir, but the best we can do is to tell you where he _did_live yesterday evening.”Sudden as winking the ornery old cretur went all to smash, and fell upagainst the man, and put his chin on his shoulder, and cried down hisback, and says:“Alas, alas, our poor brother—gone, and we never got to see him; oh,it’s too, _too_ hard!”Then he turns around, blubbering, and makes a lot of idiotic signs tothe duke on his hands, and blamed if _he_ didn’t drop a carpet-bag andbust out a-crying. If they warn’t the beatenest lot, them two frauds,that ever I struck.Well, the men gathered around and sympathized with them, and said allsorts of kind things to them, and carried their carpet-bags up thehill for them, and let them lean on them and cry, and told the kingall about his brother’s last moments, and the king he told it all overagain on his hands to the duke, and both of them took on about thatdead tanner like they’d lost the twelve disciples. Well, if ever Istruck anything like it, I’m a nigger. It was enough to make a bodyashamed of the human race.CHAPTER XXVThe news was all over town in two minutes, and you could see thepeople tearing down on the run from every which way, some of themputting on their coats as they come. Pretty soon we was in the middleof a crowd, and the noise of the tramping was like a soldier march.The windows and dooryards was full; and every minute somebody wouldsay, over a fence:“Is it _them?_”And somebody trotting along with the gang would answer back and say:“You bet it is.”When we got to the house the street in front of it was packed, and thethree girls was standing in the door. Mary Jane _was_ red-headed, butthat don’t make no difference, she was most awful beautiful, and herface and her eyes was all lit up like glory, she was so glad heruncles was come. The king he spread his arms, and Mary Jane she jumpedfor them, and the hare-lip jumped for the duke, and there they _had_it! Everybody most, leastways women, cried for joy to see them meetagain at last and have such good times.Then the king he hunched the duke private—I see him do it—and thenhe looked around and see the coffin, over in the corner on two chairs;so then him and the duke, with a hand across each other’s shoulder,and t’other hand to their eyes, walked slow and solemn over there,everybody dropping back to give them room, and all the talk and noisestopping, people saying “’Sh!” and all the men taking their hats offand drooping their heads, so you could ’a’ heard a pin fall. And whenthey got there they bent over and looked in the coffin, and took onesight, and then they bust out a-crying so you could ’a’ heard them toOrleans, most; and then they put their arms around each other’s necks,and hung their chins over each other’s shoulders; and then for threeminutes, or maybe four, I never see two men leak the way they done.And, mind you, everybody was doing the same; and the place was thatdamp I never see anything like it. Then one of them got on one side ofthe coffin, and t’other on t’other side, and they kneeled down andrested their foreheads on the coffin, and let on to pray all tothemselves. Well, when it come to that it worked the crowd like younever see anything like it, and everybody broke down and went tosobbing right out loud—the poor girls, too; and every woman, nearly,went up to the girls, without saying a word, and kissed them, solemn,on the forehead, and then put their hand on their head, and looked uptowards the sky, with the tears running down, and then busted out andwent off sobbing and swabbing, and give the next woman a show. I neversee anything so disgusting.Well, by and by the king he gets up and comes forward a little, andworks himself up and slobbers out a speech, all full of tears andflapdoodle, about its being a sore trial for him and his poor brotherto lose the diseased, and to miss seeing diseased alive after the longjourney of four thousand mile, but it’s a trial that’s sweetened andsanctified to us by this dear sympathy and these holy tears, and so hethanks them out of his heart and out of his brother’s heart, becauseout of their mouths they can’t, words being too weak and cold, and allthat kind of rot and slush, till it was just sickening; and then heblubbers out a pious goody-goody Amen, and turns himself loose and goesto crying fit to bust.And the minute the words were out of his mouth somebody over in thecrowd struck up the doxolojer, and everybody joined in with all theirmight, and it just warmed you up and made you feel as good as churchletting out. Music is a good thing; and after all that soul-butter andhogwash I never see it freshen up things so, and sound so honest andbully.Then the king begins to work his jaw again, and says how him and hisnieces would be glad if a few of the main principal friends of thefamily would take supper here with them this evening, and help set upwith the ashes of the diseased; and says if his poor brother layingyonder could speak he knows who he would name, for they was names thatwas very dear to him, and mentioned often in his letters; and so hewill name the same, to wit, as follows, viz.:—Rev. Mr. Hobson, andDeacon Lot Hovey, and Mr. Ben Rucker, and Abner Shackleford, and LeviBell, and Dr. Robinson, and their wives, and the widow Bartley.Rev. Hobson and Dr. Robinson was down to the end of the town a-huntingtogether—that is, I mean the doctor was shipping a sick man tot’other world, and the preacher was pinting him right. Lawyer Bell wasaway up to Louisville on business. But the rest was on hand, and sothey all come and shook hands with the king and thanked him and talkedto him; and then they shook hands with the duke and didn’t saynothing, but just kept a-smiling and bobbing their heads like a passelof sapheads whilst he made all sorts of signs with his hands and said“Goo-goo—goo-goo-goo” all the time, like a baby that can’t talk.So the king he blattered along, and managed to inquire about prettymuch everybody and dog in town, by his name, and mentioned all sortsof little things that happened one time or another in the town, or toGeorge’s family, or to Peter. And he always let on that Peter wrotehim the things; but that was a lie: he got every blessed one of themout of that young flathead that we canoed up to the steamboat.Then Mary Jane she fetched the letter her father left behind, and theking he read it out loud and cried over it. It give the dwelling-houseand three thousand dollars, gold, to the girls; and it give thetanyard (which was doing a good business), along with some otherhouses and land (worth about seven thousand), and three thousanddollars in gold to Harvey and William, and told where the six thousandcash was hid down cellar. So these two frauds said they’d go and fetchit up, and have everything square and above-board; and told me to comewith a candle. We shut the cellar door behind us, and when they foundthe bag they spilt it out on the floor, and it was a lovely sight, allthem yaller-boys. My, the way the king’s eyes did shine! He slaps theduke on the shoulder and says:“Oh, _this_ ain’t bully nor noth’n! Oh, no, I reckon not! Why, Biljy,it beats the Nonesuch, _don’t_ it?”The duke allowed it did. They pawed the yaller-boys, and sifted themthrough their fingers and let them jingle down on the floor; and theking says:“It ain’t no use talkin’; bein’ brothers to a rich dead man andrepresentatives of furrin heirs that’s got left is the line for youand me, Bilge. Thish yer comes of trust’n to Providence. It’s the bestway, in the long run. I’ve tried ’em all, and ther’ ain’t no betterway.”Most everybody would ’a’ been satisfied with the pile, and took it ontrust; but no, they must count it. So they counts it, and it comes outfour hundred and fifteen dollars short. Says the king:“Dern him, I wonder what he done with that four hundred and fifteendollars?”They worried over that awhile, and ransacked all around for it. Thenthe duke says:“Well, he was a pretty sick man, and likely he made a mistake—Ireckon that’s the way of it. The best way’s to let it go, and keepstill about it. We can spare it.”“Oh, shucks, yes, we can _spare_ it. I don’t k’yer noth’n ’boutthat—it’s the _count_ I’m thinkin’ about. We want to be awful squareand open and above-board here, you know. We want to lug this h’yermoney up-stairs and count it before everybody—then ther’ ain’t noth’nsuspicious. But when the dead man says ther’s six thous’n dollars, youknow, we don’t want to—”“Hold on,” says the duke. “Le’s make up the deffisit,” and he begun tohaul out yaller-boys out of his pocket.“It’s a most amaz’n’ good idea, duke—you _have_ got a rattlin’ cleverhead on you,” says the king. “Blest if the old Nonesuch ain’t aheppin’ us out ag’in,” and _he_ begun to haul out yaller-jackets andstack them up.It most busted them, but they made up the six thousand clean andclear.“Say,” says the duke, “I got another idea. Le’s go up-stairs and countthis money, and then take and _give it to the girls_.”“Good land, duke, lemme hug you! It’s the most dazzling idea ’at evera man struck. You have cert’nly got the most astonishin’ head I eversee. Oh, this is the boss dodge, ther’ ain’t no mistake ’bout it. Let’em fetch along their suspicions now if they want to—this ’ll lay ’emout.”When we got up-stairs everybody gethered around the table, and theking he counted it and stacked it up, three hundred dollars in apile—twenty elegant little piles. Everybody looked hungry at it, andlicked their chops. Then they raked it into the bag again, and I seethe king begin to swell himself up for another speech. He says:“Friends all, my poor brother that lays yonder has done generous bythem that’s left behind in the vale of sorrers. He has done generousby these yer poor little lambs that he loved and sheltered, and that’sleft fatherless and motherless. Yes, and we that knowed him knows thathe would ’a’ done _more_ generous by ’em if he hadn’t ben afeard o’woundin’ his dear William and me. Now, _wouldn’t_ he? Ther’ ain’t noquestion ’bout it in _my_ mind. Well, then, what kind o’ brotherswould it be that ’d stand in his way at sech a time? And what kind o’uncles would it be that ’d rob—yes, _rob_—sech poor sweet lambs asthese ’at he loved so at sech a time? If I know William—and I _think_I do—he—well, I’ll jest ask him.” He turns around and begins to makea lot of signs to the duke with his hands, and the duke he looks athim stupid and leather-headed awhile; then all of a sudden he seems tocatch his meaning, and jumps for the king, goo-gooing with all hismight for joy, and hugs him about fifteen times before he lets up.Then the king says, “I knowed it; I reckon _that_ ’ll convince anybodythe way _he_ feels about it. Here, Mary Jane, Susan, Joanner, take themoney—take it _all._ It’s the gift of him that lays yonder, cold butjoyful.”Mary Jane she went for him, Susan and the hare-lip went for the duke,and then such another hugging and kissing I never see yet. Andeverybody crowded up with the tears in their eyes, and most shook thehands off of them frauds, saying all the time:“You _dear_ good souls!—how _lovely!_—how _could_ you!”Well, then, pretty soon all hands got to talking about the diseasedagain, and how good he was, and what a loss he was, and all that; andbefore long a big iron-jawed man worked himself in there from outside,and stood a-listening and looking, and not saying anything; and nobodysaying anything to him either, because the king was talking and theywas all busy listening. The king was saying—in the middle ofsomething he’d started in on—“—they bein’ partickler friends o’ the diseased. That’s why they’reinvited here this evenin’; but to-morrow we want _all_ tocome—everybody; for he respected everybody, he liked everybody, andso it’s fitten that his funeral orgies sh’d be public.”And so he went a-mooning on and on, liking to hear himself talk, andevery little while he fetched in his funeral orgies again, till theduke he couldn’t stand it no more; so he writes on a little scrap ofpaper, “_Obsequies_, you old fool,” and folds it up, and goes togoo-gooing and reaching it over people’s heads to him. The king hereads it and puts it in his pocket, and says:“Poor William, afflicted as he is, his _heart’s_ aluz right. Asks meto invite everybody to come to the funeral—wants me to make ’em allwelcome. But he needn’t ’a’ worried—it was jest what I was at.”Then he weaves along again, perfectly ca’m, and goes to dropping inhis funeral orgies again every now and then, just like he done before.And when he done it the third time he says:“I say orgies, not because it’s the common term, because itain’t—obsequies bein’ the common term—but because orgies is theright term. Obsequies ain’t used in England no more now—it’s goneout. We say orgies now in England. Orgies is better, because it meansthe thing you’re after more exact. It’s a word that’s made up out’nthe Greek _orgo_, outside, open, abroad; and the Hebrew _jeesum_, toplant, cover up; hence in_ter_. So, you see, funeral orgies is an opener public funeral.”He was the _worst_ I ever struck. Well, the iron-jawed man he laughedright in his face. Everybody was shocked. Everybody says, “Why,_doctor!_” and Abner Shackleford says:“Why, Robinson, hain’t you heard the news? This is Harvey Wilks.”The king he smiled eager, and shoved out his flapper, and says:“_Is_ it my poor brother’s dear good friend and physician? I—”“Keep your hands off me!” says the doctor. “_You_ talk like anEnglishman, _don’t_ you? It’s the worst imitation I ever heard. _You_Peter Wilks’s brother! You’re a fraud, that’s what you are!”Well, how they all took on! They crowded around the doctor and triedto quiet him down, and tried to explain to him and tell him howHarvey’s showed in forty ways that he _was_ Harvey, and knowedeverybody by name, and the names of the very dogs, and begged and_begged_ him not to hurt Harvey’s feelings and the poor girls’feelings, and all that. But it warn’t no use; he stormed right along,and said any man that pretended to be an Englishman and couldn’timitate the lingo no better than what he did was a fraud and a liar.The poor girls was hanging to the king and crying; and all of a suddenthe doctor ups and turns on _them._ He says:“I was your father’s friend, and I’m your friend; and I warn you _as_ afriend, and an honest one that wants to protect you and keep you outof harm and trouble, to turn your backs on that scoundrel and havenothing to do with him, the ignorant tramp, with his idiotic Greek andHebrew, as he calls it. He is the thinnest kind of an impostor—hascome here with a lot of empty names and facts which he picked upsomewheres; and you take them for _proofs_, and are helped to foolyourselves by these foolish friends here, who ought to know better.Mary Jane Wilks, you know me for your friend, and for your unselfishfriend, too. Now listen to me; turn this pitiful rascal out—I _beg_you to do it. Will you?”Mary Jane straightened herself up, and my, but she was handsome! Shesays:“_Here_ is my answer.” She hove up the bag of money and put it in theking’s hands, and says, “Take this six thousand dollars, and investfor me and my sisters any way you want to, and don’t give us noreceipt for it.”Then she put her arm around the king on one side, and Susan and thehare-lip done the same on the other. Everybody clapped their hands andstomped on the floor like a perfect storm, whilst the king held up hishead and smiled proud. The doctor says:“All right; I wash _my_ hands of the matter. But I warn you all that atime’s coming when you’re going to feel sick whenever you think ofthis day.” And away he went.“All right, doctor,” says the king, kinder mocking him; “we’ll try andget ’em to send for you;” which made them all laugh, and they said itwas a prime good hit.CHAPTER XXVIWell, when they was all gone the king he asks Mary Jane how they wasoff for spare rooms, and she said she had one spare room, which woulddo for Uncle William, and she’d give her own room to Uncle Harvey,which was a little bigger, and she would turn into the room with hersisters and sleep on a cot; and up garret was a little cubby, with apallet in it. The king said the cubby would do for his valley—meaningme.So Mary Jane took us up, and she showed them their rooms, which wasplain but nice. She said she’d have her frocks and a lot of othertraps took out of her room if they was in Uncle Harvey’s way, but hesaid they warn’t. The frocks was hung along the wall, and before themwas a curtain made out of calico that hung down to the floor. Therewas an old hair trunk in one corner, and a guitar-box in another, andall sorts of little knickknacks and jimcracks around, like girlsbrisken up a room with. The king said it was all the more homely andmore pleasanter for these fixings, and so don’t disturb them. Theduke’s room was pretty small, but plenty good enough, and so was mycubby.That night they had a big supper, and all them men and women wasthere, and I stood behind the king and the duke’s chairs and waited onthem, and the niggers waited on the rest. Mary Jane she set at thehead of the table, with Susan alongside of her, and said how bad thebiscuits was, and how mean the preserves was, and how ornery and toughthe fried chickens was—and all that kind of rot, the way women alwaysdo for to force out compliments; and the people all knowed everythingwas tiptop, and said so—said “How _do_ you get biscuits to brown sonice?” and “Where, for the land’s sake, _did_ you get these amaz’npickles?” and all that kind of humbug talky-talk, just the way peoplealways does at a supper, you know.And when it was all done me and the hare-lip had supper in the kitchenoff of the leavings, whilst the others was helping the niggers cleanup the things. The hare-lip she got to pumping me about England, andblest if I didn’t think the ice was getting mighty thin sometimes. Shesays:“Did you ever see the king?”“Who? William Fourth? Well, I bet I have—he goes to our church.” Iknowed he was dead years ago, but I never let on. So when I says hegoes to our church, she says:“What—regular?”“Yes—regular. His pew’s right over opposite ourn—on t’other side thepulpit.”“I thought he lived in London?”“Well, he does. Where _would_ he live?”“But I thought _you_ lived in Sheffield?”I see I was up a stump. I had to let on to get choked with achicken-bone, so as to get time to think how to get down again. Then Isays:“I mean he goes to our church regular when he’s in Sheffield. That’sonly in the summer-time, when he comes there to take the sea baths.”“Why, how you talk—Sheffield ain’t on the sea.”“Well, who said it was?”“Why, you did.”“I _didn’t_, nuther.”“You did!”“I didn’t.”“You did.”“I never said nothing of the kind.”“Well, what _did_ you say, then?”“Said he come to take the sea _baths_—that’s what I said.”“Well, then, how’s he going to take the sea baths if it ain’t on thesea?”“Looky here,” I says; “did you ever see any Congress-water?”“Yes.”“Well, did you have to go to Congress to get it?”“Why, no.”“Well, neither does William Fourth have to go to the sea to get a seabath.”“How does he get it, then?”“Gets it the way people down here gets Congress-water—in barrels.There in the palace at Sheffield they’ve got furnaces, and he wantshis water hot. They can’t bile that amount of water away off there atthe sea. They haven’t got no conveniences for it.”“Oh, I see, now. You might ’a’ said that in the first place and savedtime.”When she said that I see I was out of the woods again, and so I wascomfortable and glad. Next, she says:“Do you go to church, too?”“Yes—regular.”“Where do you set?”“Why, in our pew.”“_Whose_ pew?”“Why, _ourn_—your Uncle Harvey’s.”“His’n? What does _he_ want with a pew?”“Wants it to set in. What did you _reckon_ he wanted with it?”“Why, I thought he’d be in the pulpit.”Rot him, I forgot he was a preacher. I see I was up a stump again, soI played another chicken-bone and got another think. Then I says:“Blame it, do you suppose there ain’t but one preacher to a church?”“Why, what do they want with more?”“What!—to preach before a king? I never did see such a girl as you.They don’t have no less than seventeen.”“Seventeen! My land! Why, I wouldn’t set out such a string as that,not if I _never_ got to glory. It must take ’em a week.”“Shucks, they don’t _all_ of ’em preach the same day—only _one_ of’em.”“Well, then, what does the rest of ’em do?”“Oh, nothing much. Loll around, pass the plate—and one thing oranother. But mainly they don’t do nothing.”“Well, then, what are they _for_?”“Why, they’re for _style_. Don’t you know nothing?”“Well, I don’t _want_ to know no such foolishness as that. How isservants treated in England? Do they treat ’em better ’n we treat ourniggers?”“_No!_ A servant ain’t nobody there. They treat them worse than dogs.”“Don’t they give ’em holidays, the way we do, Christmas and New Year’sweek, and Fourth of July?”“Oh, just listen! A body could tell _you_ hain’t ever been to Englandby that. Why, Hare-l—why, Joanna, they never see a holiday fromyear’s end to year’s end; never go to the circus, nor theater, nornigger shows, nor nowheres.”“Nor church?”“Nor church.”“But _you_ always went to church.”Well, I was gone up again. I forgot I was the old man’s servant. Butnext minute I whirled in on a kind of an explanation how a valley wasdifferent from a common servant, and _had_ to go to church whether hewanted to or not, and set with the family, on account of its being thelaw. But I didn’t do it pretty good, and when I got done I see shewarn’t satisfied. She says:“Honest injun, now, hain’t you been telling me a lot of lies?”“Honest injun,” says I.“None of it at all?”“None of it at all. Not a lie in it,” says I.“Lay your hand on this book and say it.”I see it warn’t nothing but a dictionary, so I laid my hand on it andsaid it. So then she looked a little better satisfied, and says:“Well, then, I’ll believe some of it; but I hope to gracious if I’llbelieve the rest.”“What is it you won’t believe, Jo?” says Mary Jane, stepping in withSusan behind her. “It ain’t right nor kind for you to talk so to him,and him a stranger and so far from his people. How would you like tobe treated so?”“That’s always your way, Maim—always sailing in to help somebodybefore they’re hurt. I hain’t done nothing to him. He’s told somestretchers, I reckon, and I said I wouldn’t swallow it all; and that’severy bit and grain I _did_ say. I reckon he can stand a little thinglike that, can’t he?”“I don’t care whether ’twas little or whether ’twas big; he’s here inour house and a stranger, and it wasn’t good of you to say it. If youwas in his place it would make you feel ashamed; and so you oughtn’tto say a thing to another person that will make _them_ feel ashamed.”“Why, Maim, he said—”“It don’t make no difference what he _said_—that ain’t the thing. Thething is for you to treat him _kind_, and not be saying things to makehim remember he ain’t in his own country and amongst his own folks.”I says to myself, _this_ is a girl that I’m letting that old reptilerob her of her money!Then Susan _she_ waltzed in; and if you’ll believe me, she did giveHare-lip hark from the tomb!Says I to myself, and this is _another_ one that I’m letting him robher of her money!Then Mary Jane she took another inning, and went in sweet and lovelyagain—which was her way; but when she got done there warn’t hardlyanything left o’ poor Hare-lip. So she hollered.“All right, then,” says the other girls; “you just ask his pardon.”She done it, too; and she done it beautiful. She done it so beautifulit was good to hear; and I wished I could tell her a thousand lies, soshe could do it again.I says to myself, this is _another_ one that I’m letting him rob herof her money. And when she got through they all jest laid theirselvesout to make me feel at home and know I was amongst friends. I felt soornery and low down and mean that I says to myself, my mind’s made up;I’ll hive that money for them or bust.So then I lit out—for bed, I said, meaning some time or another. WhenI got by myself I went to thinking the thing over. I says to myself,shall I go to that doctor, private, and blow on these frauds? No—thatwon’t do. He might tell who told him; then the king and the duke wouldmake it warm for me. Shall I go, private, and tell Mary Jane? No—Idasn’t do it. Her face would give them a hint, sure; they’ve got themoney, and they’d slide right out and get away with it. If she was tofetch in help I’d get mixed up in the business before it was donewith, I judge. No; there ain’t no good way but one. I got to stealthat money, somehow; and I got to steal it some way that they won’tsuspicion that I done it. They’ve got a good thing here, and theyain’t a-going to leave till they’ve played this family and this townfor all they’re worth, so I’ll find a chance time enough. I’ll stealit and hide it; and by and by, when I’m away down the river, I’llwrite a letter and tell Mary Jane where it’s hid. But I better hive itto-night if I can, because the doctor maybe hasn’t let up as much ashe lets on he has; he might scare them out of here yet.So, thinks I, I’ll go and search them rooms. Upstairs the hall wasdark, but I found the duke’s room, and started to paw around it withmy hands; but I recollected it wouldn’t be much like the king to letanybody else take care of that money but his own self; so then I wentto his room and begun to paw around there. But I see I couldn’t donothing without a candle, and I dasn’t light one, of course. So Ijudged I’d got to do the other thing—lay for them and eavesdrop.About that time I hears their footsteps coming, and was going to skipunder the bed; I reached for it, but it wasn’t where I thought itwould be; but I touched the curtain that hid Mary Jane’s frocks, so Ijumped in behind that and snuggled in amongst the gowns, and stoodthere perfectly still.They come in and shut the door; and the first thing the duke done wasto get down and look under the bed. Then I was glad I hadn’t found thebed when I wanted it. And yet, you know, it’s kind of natural to hideunder the bed when you are up to anything private. They sets down then,and the king says:“Well, what is it? And cut it middlin’ short, because it’s better forus to be down there a-whoopin’ up the mournin’ than up here givin’ ’ema chance to talk us over.”“Well, this is it, Capet. I ain’t easy; I ain’t comfortable. Thatdoctor lays on my mind. I wanted to know your plans. I’ve got anotion, and I think it’s a sound one.”“What is it, duke?”“That we better glide out of this before three in the morning, andclip it down the river with what we’ve got. Specially, seeing we gotit so easy—_given_ back to us, flung at our heads, as you may say,when of course we allowed to have to steal it back. I’m for knockingoff and lighting out.”That made me feel pretty bad. About an hour or two ago it would ’a’been a little different, but now it made me feel bad and disappointed.The king rips out and says:“What! And not sell out the rest o’ the property? March off like apassel of fools and leave eight or nine thous’n’ dollars’ worth o’property layin’ around jest sufferin’ to be scooped in?—and all good,salable stuff, too.”The duke he grumbled; said the bag of gold was enough, and he didn’twant to go no deeper—didn’t want to rob a lot of orphans of_everything_ they had.“Why, how you talk!” says the king. “We sha’n’t rob ’em of nothing atall but jest this money. The people that _buys_ the property is thesuff’rers; because as soon ’s it’s found out ’at we didn’t ownit—which won’t be long after we’ve slid—the sale won’t be valid, andit ’ll all go back to the estate. These yer orphans ’ll git theirhouse back ag’in, and that’s enough for _them;_ they’re young andspry, and k’n easy earn a livin’. _They_ ain’t a-goin’ to suffer. Why,jest think—there’s thous’n’s and thous’n’s that ain’t nigh so welloff. Bless you, _they_ ain’t got noth’n’ to complain of.”Well, the king he talked him blind; so at last he give in, and saidall right, but said he believed it was blamed foolishness to stay, andthat doctor hanging over them. But the king says:“Cuss the doctor! What do we k’yer for _him?_ Hain’t we got all thefools in town on our side? And ain’t that a big enough majority in anytown?”So they got ready to go down-stairs again. The duke says:“I don’t think we put that money in a good place.”That cheered me up. I’d begun to think I warn’t going to get a hint ofno kind to help me. The king says:“Why?”“Because Mary Jane ’ll be in mourning from this out; and first youknow the nigger that does up the rooms will get an order to box theseduds up and put ’em away; and do you reckon a nigger can run acrossmoney and not borrow some of it?”“Your head’s level ag’in, duke,” says the king; and he comesa-fumbling under the curtain two or three foot from where I was. Istuck tight to the wall and kept mighty still, though quivery; and Iwondered what them fellows would say to me if they catched me; and Itried to think what I’d better do if they did catch me. But the kinghe got the bag before I could think more than about a half a thought,and he never suspicioned I was around. They took and shoved the bagthrough a rip in the straw tick that was under the feather-bed, andcrammed it in a foot or two amongst the straw and said it was allright now, because a nigger only makes up the feather-bed, and don’tturn over the straw tick only about twice a year, and so it warn’t inno danger of getting stole now.But I knowed better. I had it out of there before they was half-waydown-stairs. I groped along up to my cubby, and hid it there till Icould get a chance to do better. I judged I better hide it outside ofthe house somewheres, because if they missed it they would give thehouse a good ransacking: I knowed that very well. Then I turned in,with my clothes all on; but I couldn’t ’a’ gone to sleep if I’d ’a’wanted to, I was in such a sweat to get through with the business. Byand by I heard the king and the duke come up; so I rolled off mypallet and laid with my chin at the top of my ladder, and waited tosee if anything was going to happen. But nothing did.So I held on till all the late sounds had quit and the early oneshadn’t begun yet; and then I slipped down the ladder.CHAPTER XXVIII crept to their doors and listened; they was snoring. So I tiptoedalong, and got down-stairs all right. There warn’t a sound anywheres. Ipeeped through a crack of the dining-room door, and see the men thatwas watching the corpse all sound asleep on their chairs. The door wasopen into the parlor, where the corpse was laying, and there was acandle in both rooms. I passed along, and the parlor door was open;but I see there warn’t nobody in there but the remainders of Peter; soI shoved on by; but the front door was locked, and the key wasn’tthere. Just then I heard somebody coming down the stairs, back behindme. I run in the parlor and took a swift look around, and the onlyplace I see to hide the bag was in the coffin. The lid was shovedalong about a foot, showing the dead man’s face down in there, with awet cloth over it, and his shroud on. I tucked the money-bag in underthe lid, just down beyond where his hands was crossed, which made mecreep, they was so cold, and then I run back across the room and inbehind the door.The person coming was Mary Jane. She went to the coffin, very soft,and kneeled down and looked in; then she put up her handkerchief, andI see she begun to cry, though I couldn’t hear her, and her back wasto me. I slid out, and as I passed the dining-room I thought I’d makesure them watchers hadn’t seen me; so I looked through the crack, andeverything was all right. They hadn’t stirred.I slipped up to bed, feeling ruther blue, on accounts of the thingplaying out that way after I had took so much trouble and run so muchresk about it. Says I, if it could stay where it is, all right;because when we get down the river a hundred mile or two I could writeback to Mary Jane, and she could dig him up again and get it; but thatain’t the thing that’s going to happen; the thing that’s going tohappen is, the money’ll be found when they come to screw on the lid.Then the king ’ll get it again, and it ’ll be a long day before hegives anybody another chance to smouch it from him. Of course I_wanted_ to slide down and get it out of there, but I dasn’t try it.Every minute it was getting earlier now, and pretty soon some of themwatchers would begin to stir, and I might get catched—catched withsix thousand dollars in my hands that nobody hadn’t hired me to takecare of. I don’t wish to be mixed up in no such business as that, Isays to myself.When I got down-stairs in the morning the parlor was shut up, and thewatchers was gone. There warn’t nobody around but the family and thewidow Bartley and our tribe. I watched their faces to see if anythinghad been happening, but I couldn’t tell.Towards the middle of the day the undertaker come with his man, andthey set the coffin in the middle of the room on a couple of chairs,and then set all our chairs in rows, and borrowed more from theneighbors till the hall and the parlor and the dining-room was full. Isee the coffin lid was the way it was before, but I dasn’t go to lookin under it, with folks around.Then the people begun to flock in, and the beats and the girls tookseats in the front row at the head of the coffin, and for a half anhour the people filed around slow, in single rank, and looked down atthe dead man’s face a minute, and some dropped in a tear, and it wasall very still and solemn, only the girls and the beats holdinghandkerchiefs to their eyes and keeping their heads bent, and sobbinga little. There warn’t no other sound but the scraping of the feet onthe floor and blowing noses—because people always blows them more ata funeral than they do at other places except church.When the place was packed full the undertaker he slid around in hisblack gloves with his softy soothering ways, putting on the lasttouches, and getting people and things all ship-shape and comfortable,and making no more sound than a cat. He never spoke; he moved peoplearound, he squeezed in late ones, he opened up passageways, and doneit with nods, and signs with his hands. Then he took his place overagainst the wall. He was the softest, glidingest, stealthiest man Iever see; and there warn’t no more smile to him than there is to aham.They had borrowed a melodeum—a sick one; and when everything wasready a young woman set down and worked it, and it was pretty skreekyand colicky, and everybody joined in and sung, and Peter was the onlyone that had a good thing, according to my notion. Then the ReverendHobson opened up, slow and solemn, and begun to talk; and straight offthe most outrageous row busted out in the cellar a body ever heard; itwas only one dog, but he made a most powerful racket, and he kept itup right along; the parson he had to stand there, over the coffin, andwait—you couldn’t hear yourself think. It was right down awkward, andnobody didn’t seem to know what to do. But pretty soon they see thatlong-legged undertaker make a sign to the preacher as much as to say,“Don’t you worry—just depend on me.” Then he stooped down and begunto glide along the wall, just his shoulders showing over the people’sheads. So he glided along, and the powwow and racket getting more andmore outrageous all the time; and at last, when he had gone around twosides of the room, he disappears down cellar. Then in about twoseconds we heard a whack, and the dog he finished up with a mostamazing howl or two, and then everything was dead still, and theparson begun his solemn talk where he left off. In a minute or twohere comes this undertaker’s back and shoulders gliding along the wallagain; and so he glided and glided around three sides of the room, andthen rose up, and shaded his mouth with his hands, and stretched hisneck out towards the preacher, over the people’s heads, and says, in akind of a coarse whisper, “_He had a rat!_” Then he drooped down andglided along the wall again to his place. You could see it was a greatsatisfaction to the people, because naturally they wanted to know. Alittle thing like that don’t cost nothing, and it’s just the littlethings that makes a man to be looked up to and liked. There warn’t nomore popular man in town than what that undertaker was.Well, the funeral sermon was very good, but pison long and tiresome;and then the king he shoved in and got off some of his usual rubbage,and at last the job was through, and the undertaker begun to sneak upon the coffin with his screw-driver. I was in a sweat then, andwatched him pretty keen. But he never meddled at all; just slid thelid along as soft as mush, and screwed it down tight and fast. Sothere I was! I didn’t know whether the money was in there or not. So,says I, s’pose somebody has hogged that bag on the sly?—now how do_I_ know whether to write to Mary Jane or not? S’pose she dug him upand didn’t find nothing, what would she think of me? Blame it, I says,I might get hunted up and jailed; I’d better lay low and keep dark,and not write at all; the thing’s awful mixed now; trying to betterit, I’ve worsened it a hundred times, and I wish to goodness I’d justlet it alone, dad fetch the whole business!They buried him, and we come back home, and I went to watching facesagain—I couldn’t help it, and I couldn’t rest easy. But nothing comeof it; the faces didn’t tell me nothing.The king he visited around in the evening, and sweetened everybody up,and made himself ever so friendly; and he give out the idea that hiscongregation over in England would be in a sweat about him, so he musthurry and settle up the estate right away and leave for home. He wasvery sorry he was so pushed, and so was everybody; they wished hecould stay longer, but they said they could see it couldn’t be done.And he said of course him and William would take the girls home withthem; and that pleased everybody too, because then the girls would bewell fixed and amongst their own relations; and it pleased the girls,too—tickled them so they clean forgot they ever had a trouble in theworld; and told him to sell out as quick as he wanted to, they wouldbe ready. Them poor things was that glad and happy it made my heartache to see them getting fooled and lied to so, but I didn’t see nosafe way for me to chip in and change the general tune.Well, blamed if the king didn’t bill the house and the niggers and allthe property for auction straight off—sale two days after thefuneral; but anybody could buy private beforehand if they wanted to.So the next day after the funeral, along about noon-time, the girls’joy got the first jolt. A couple of nigger-traders come along, and theking sold them the niggers reasonable, for three-day drafts as theycalled it, and away they went, the two sons up the river to Memphis,and their mother down the river to Orleans. I thought them poor girlsand them niggers would break their hearts for grief; they cried aroundeach other, and took on so it most made me down sick to see it. Thegirls said they hadn’t ever dreamed of seeing the family separated orsold away from the town. I can’t ever get it out of my memory, thesight of them poor miserable girls and niggers hanging around eachother’s necks and crying; and I reckon I couldn’t ’a’ stood it all,but would ’a’ had to bust out and tell on our gang if I hadn’t knowedthe sale warn’t no account and the niggers would be back home in aweek or two.The thing made a big stir in the town, too, and a good many come outflat-footed and said it was scandalous to separate the mother and thechildren that way. It injured the frauds some; but the old fool hebulled right along, spite of all the duke could say or do, and I tellyou the duke was powerful uneasy.Next day was auction day. About broad day in the morning the king andthe duke come up in the garret and woke me up, and I see by their lookthat there was trouble. The king says:“Was you in my room night before last?”“No, your majesty”—which was the way I always called him when nobodybut our gang warn’t around.“Was you in there yisterday er last night?”“No, your majesty.”“Honor bright, now—no lies.”“Honor bright, your majesty, I’m telling you the truth. I hain’t beena-near your room since Miss Mary Jane took you and the duke and showedit to you.”The duke says:“Have you seen anybody else go in there?”“No, your grace, not as I remember, I believe.”“Stop and think.”I studied awhile and see my chance; then I says:“Well, I see the niggers go in there several times.”Both of them gave a little jump, and looked like they hadn’t everexpected it, and then like they _had_. Then the duke says:“What, _all_ of them?”“No—leastways, not all at once—that is, I don’t think I ever seethem all come _out_ at once but just one time.”“Hello! When was that?”“It was the day we had the funeral. In the morning. It warn’t early,because I overslept. I was just starting down the ladder, and I seethem.”“Well, go on, _go_ on! What did they do? How’d they act?”“They didn’t do nothing. And they didn’t act anyway much, as fur as Isee. They tiptoed away; so I seen, easy enough, that they’d shoved inthere to do up your majesty’s room, or something, s’posing you was up;and found you _warn’t_ up, and so they was hoping to slide out of theway of trouble without waking you up, if they hadn’t already waked youup.”“Great guns, _this_ is a go!” says the king; and both of them lookedpretty sick and tolerable silly. They stood there a-thinking andscratching their heads a minute, and the duke he bust into a kind of alittle raspy chuckle, and says:“It does beat all how neat the niggers played their hand. They let onto be _sorry_ they was going out of this region! And I believed they_was_ sorry, and so did you, and so did everybody. Don’t ever tell_me_ any more that a nigger ain’t got any histrionic talent. Why, theway they played that thing it would fool _anybody._ In my opinion,there’s a fortune in ’em. If I had capital and a theater, I wouldn’twant a better lay-out than that—and here we’ve gone and sold ’em fora song. Yes, and ain’t privileged to sing the song yet. Say, where_is_ that song—that draft?”“In the bank for to be collected. Where _would_ it be?”“Well, _that’s_ all right then, thank goodness.”Says I, kind of timid-like:“Is something gone wrong?”The king whirls on me and rips out:“None o’ your business! You keep your head shet, and mind y’r ownaffairs—if you got any. Long as you’re in this town don’t you forgit_that_—you hear?” Then he says to the duke, “We got to jest swallerit and say noth’n’: mum’s the word for _us_.”As they was starting down the ladder the duke he chuckles again, andsays:“Quick sales _and_ small profits! It’s a good business—yes.”The king snarls around on him and says:“I was trying to do for the best in sellin’ ’em out so quick. If theprofits has turned out to be none, lackin’ considable, and none tocarry, is it my fault any more’n it’s yourn?”“Well, _they’d_ be in this house yet and we _wouldn’t_ if I could ’a’got my advice listened to.”The king sassed back as much as was safe for him, and then swappedaround and lit into _me_ again. He give me down the banks for notcoming and _telling_ him I see the niggers come out of his room actingthat way—said any fool would ’a’ _knowed_ something was up. And thenwaltzed in and cussed _himself_ awhile, and said it all come of himnot laying late and taking his natural rest that morning, and he’d beblamed if he’d ever do it again. So they went off a-jawing; and I feltdreadful glad I’d worked it all off onto the niggers, and yet hadn’tdone the niggers no harm by it.CHAPTER XXVIIIBy and by it was getting-up time. So I come down the ladder andstarted for down-stairs; but as I come to the girls’ room the door wasopen, and I see Mary Jane setting by her old hair trunk, which wasopen and she’d been packing things in it—getting ready to go toEngland. But she had stopped now with a folded gown in her lap, andhad her face in her hands, crying. I felt awful bad to see it; ofcourse anybody would. I went in there and says:“Miss Mary Jane, you can’t a-bear to see people in trouble, and _I_can’t—most always. Tell me about it.”So she done it. And it was the niggers—I just expected it. She saidthe beautiful trip to England was most about spoiled for her; shedidn’t know _how_ she was ever going to be happy there, knowing themother and the children warn’t ever going to see each other nomore—and then busted out bitterer than ever, and flung up her hands,and says:“Oh, dear, dear, to think they ain’t _ever_ going to see each otherany more!”“But they _will_—and inside of two weeks—and I _know_ it!” says I.Laws, it was out before I could think! And before I could budge shethrows her arms around my neck and told me to say it _again_, say it_again_, say it _again!_I see I had spoke too sudden and said too much, and was in a closeplace. I asked her to let me think a minute; and she set there, veryimpatient and excited and handsome, but looking kind of happy andeased-up, like a person that’s had a tooth pulled out. So I went tostudying it out. I says to myself, I reckon a body that ups and tellsthe truth when he is in a tight place is taking considerable manyresks, though I ain’t had no experience, and can’t say for certain;but it looks so to me, anyway; and yet here’s a case where I’m blestif it don’t look to me like the truth is better and actuly _safer_than a lie. I must lay it by in my mind, and think it over some timeor other, it’s so kind of strange and unregular. I never see nothinglike it. Well, I says to myself at last, I’m a-going to chance it;I’ll up and tell the truth this time, though it does seem most _like_setting down on a kag of powder and touching it off just to see whereyou’ll go to. Then I says:“Miss Mary Jane, is there any place out of town a little ways whereyou could go and stay three or four days?”“Yes; Mr. Lothrop’s. Why?”“Never mind why yet. If I’ll tell you how I know the niggers will seeeach other again—inside of two weeks—here in this house—and _prove_how I know it—will you go to Mr. Lothrop’s and stay four days?”“Four days!” she says; “I’ll stay a year!”“All right,” I says, “I don’t want nothing more out of _you_ than justyour word—I druther have it than another man’s kiss-the-Bible.” Shesmiled and reddened up very sweet, and I says, “If you don’t mind it,I’ll shut the door—and bolt it.”Then I come back and set down again, and says:“Don’t you holler. Just set still and take it like a man. I got totell the truth, and you want to brace up, Miss Mary, because it’s abad kind, and going to be hard to take, but there ain’t no help forit. These uncles of yourn ain’t no uncles at all; they’re a couple offrauds—regular dead-beats. There, now we’re over the worst of it, youcan stand the rest middling easy.”It jolted her up like everything, of course; but I was over the shoalwater now, so I went right along, her eyes a-blazing higher and higherall the time, and told her every blame thing, from where we firststruck that young fool going up to the steamboat, clear through towhere she flung herself onto the king’s breast at the front door andhe kissed her sixteen or seventeen times—and then up she jumps, withher face afire like sunset, and says:“The brute! Come, don’t waste a minute—not a _second_—we’ll havethem tarred and feathered, and flung in the river!”Says I:“Cert’nly. But do you mean _before_ you go to Mr. Lothrop’s, or—”“Oh,” she says, “what am I _thinking_ about!” she says, and set rightdown again. “Don’t mind what I said—please don’t—you _won’t_, now,_will_ you?” Laying her silky hand on mine in that kind of a way thatI said I would die first. “I never thought, I was so stirred up,” shesays; “now go on, and I won’t do so any more. You tell me what to do,and whatever you say I’ll do it.”“Well,” I says, “it’s a rough gang, them two frauds, and I’m fixed soI got to travel with them a while longer, whether I want to or not—Idruther not tell you why; and if you was to blow on them this townwould get me out of their claws, and _I_’d be all right; but there’d beanother person that you don’t know about who’d be in big trouble.Well, we got to save _him_, hain’t we? Of course. Well, then, we won’tblow on them.”Saying them words put a good idea in my head. I see how maybe I couldget me and Jim rid of the frauds; get them jailed here, and thenleave. But I didn’t want to run the raft in the daytime withoutanybody aboard to answer questions but me; so I didn’t want the planto begin working till pretty late to-night. I says:“Miss Mary Jane, I’ll tell you what we’ll do, and you won’t have tostay at Mr. Lothrop’s so long, nuther. How fur is it?”“A little short of four miles—right out in the country, back here.”“Well, that ’ll answer. Now you go along out there, and lay low tillnine or half past to-night, and then get them to fetch you homeagain—tell them you’ve thought of something. If you get here beforeeleven put a candle in this window, and if I don’t turn up wait _till_eleven, and _then_ if I don’t turn up it means I’m gone, and out ofthe way, and safe. Then you come out and spread the news around, andget these beats jailed.”“Good,” she says, “I’ll do it.”“And if it just happens so that I don’t get away, but get took upalong with them, you must up and say I told you the whole thingbeforehand, and you must stand by me all you can.”“Stand by you! indeed I will. They sha’n’t touch a hair of your head!”she says, and I see her nostrils spread and her eyes snap when shesaid it, too.“If I get away I sha’n’t be here,” I says, “to prove theserapscallions ain’t your uncles, and I couldn’t do it if I _was_ here.I could swear they was beats and bummers, that’s all, though that’sworth something. Well, there’s others can do that better than what Ican, and they’re people that ain’t going to be doubted as quick as I’dbe. I’ll tell you how to find them. Gimme a pencil and a piece ofpaper. There—’_Royal Nonesuch, Bricksville._’ Put it away, and don’tlose it. When the court wants to find out something about these two,let them send up to Bricksville and say they’ve got the men thatplayed the ’Royal Nonesuch,’ and ask for some witnesses—why, you’llhave that entire town down here before you can hardly wink, Miss Mary.And they’ll come a-biling, too.”I judged we had got everything fixed about right now. So I says:“Just let the auction go right along, and don’t worry. Nobody don’thave to pay for the things they buy till a whole day after the auctionon accounts of the short notice, and they ain’t going out of this tillthey get that money; and the way we’ve fixed it the sale ain’t goingto count, and they ain’t going to _get_ no money. It’s just like the wayit was with the niggers—it warn’t no sale, and the niggers will beback before long. Why, they can’t collect the money for the _niggers_yet—they’re in the worst kind of a fix, Miss Mary.”“Well,” she says, “I’ll run down to breakfast now, and then I’ll startstraight for Mr. Lothrop’s.”“’Deed, _that_ ain’t the ticket, Miss Mary Jane,” I says, “by nomanner of means; go _before_ breakfast.”“Why?”“What did you reckon I wanted you to go at all for, Miss Mary?”“Well, I never thought—and come to think, I don’t know. What was it?”“Why, it’s because you ain’t one of these leather-face people. I don’twant no better book than what your face is. A body can set down andread it off like coarse print. Do you reckon you can go and face youruncles when they come to kiss you good-morning, and never—”“There, there, don’t! Yes, I’ll go before breakfast—I’ll be glad to.And leave my sisters with them?”“Yes; never mind about them. They’ve got to stand it yet awhile. Theymight suspicion something if all of you was to go. I don’t want you tosee them, nor your sisters, nor nobody in this town; if a neighbor wasto ask how is your uncles this morning your face would tell something.No, you go right along, Miss Mary Jane, and I’ll fix it with all ofthem. I’ll tell Miss Susan to give your love to your uncles and sayyou’ve went away for a few hours for to get a little rest and change,or to see a friend, and you’ll be back to-night or early in themorning.”“Gone to see a friend is all right, but I won’t have my love given tothem.”“Well, then, it sha’n’t be.” It was well enough to tell _her_ so—noharm in it. It was only a little thing to do, and no trouble; and it’sthe little things that smooths people’s roads the most, down herebelow; it would make Mary Jane comfortable, and it wouldn’t costnothing. Then I says: “There’s one more thing—that bag of money.”“Well, they’ve got that; and it makes me feel pretty silly to think_how_ they got it.”“No, you’re out, there. They hain’t got it.”“Why, who’s got it?”“I wish I knowed, but I don’t. I _had_ it, because I stole it fromthem; and I stole it to give to you; and I know where I hid it, butI’m afraid it ain’t there no more. I’m awful sorry, Miss Mary Jane,I’m just as sorry as I can be; but I done the best I could; I didhonest. I come nigh getting caught, and I had to shove it into thefirst place I come to, and run—and it warn’t a good place.”“Oh, stop blaming yourself—it’s too bad to do it, and I won’t allowit—you couldn’t help it; it wasn’t your fault. Where did you hideit?”I didn’t want to set her to thinking about her troubles again; and Icouldn’t seem to get my mouth to tell her what would make her see thatcorpse laying in the coffin with that bag of money on his stomach. Sofor a minute I didn’t say nothing; then I says:“I’d ruther not _tell_ you where I put it, Miss Mary Jane, if youdon’t mind letting me off; but I’ll write it for you on a piece ofpaper, and you can read it along the road to Mr. Lothrop’s, if youwant to. Do you reckon that ’ll do?”“Oh, yes.”So I wrote: “I put it in the coffin. It was in there when you wascrying there, away in the night. I was behind the door, and I wasmighty sorry for you, Miss Mary Jane.”It made my eyes water a little to remember her crying there all byherself in the night, and them devils laying there right under her ownroof, shaming her and robbing her; and when I folded it up and give itto her I see the water come into her eyes, too; and she shook me bythe hand, hard, and says:“_Good_-by. I’m going to do everything just as you’ve told me; and ifI don’t ever see you again, I sha’n’t ever forget you, and I’ll thinkof you a many and a many a time, and I’ll _pray_ for you, too!”—andshe was gone.Pray for me! I reckoned if she knowed me she’d take a job that wasmore nearer her size. But I bet she done it, just the same—she wasjust that kind. She had the grit to pray for Judus if she took thenotion—there warn’t no back-down to her, I judge. You may say whatyou want to, but in my opinion she had more sand in her than any girlI ever see; in my opinion she was just full of sand. It sounds likeflattery, but it ain’t no flattery. And when it comes to beauty—andgoodness, too—she lays over them all. I hain’t ever seen her sincethat time that I see her go out of that door; no, I hain’t ever seenher since, but I reckon I’ve thought of her a many and a many amillion times, and of her saying she would pray for me; and if everI’d ’a’ thought it would do any good for me to pray for _her_, blamedif I wouldn’t ’a’ done it or bust.Well, Mary Jane she lit out the back way, I reckon; because nobody seeher go. When I struck Susan and the hare-lip, I says:“What’s the name of them people over on t’other side of the river thatyou all goes to see sometimes?”They says:“There’s several; but it’s the Proctors, mainly.”“That’s the name,” I says; “I most forgot it. Well, Miss Mary Jane shetold me to tell you she’s gone over there in a dreadful hurry—one ofthem’s sick.”“Which one?”“I don’t know; leastways, I kinder forget; but I thinks it’s—”“Sakes alive, I hope it ain’t _Hanner_?”“I’m sorry to say it,” I says, “but Hanner’s the very one.”“My goodness, and she so well only last week! Is she took bad?”“It ain’t no name for it. They set up with her all night, Miss MaryJane said, and they don’t think she’ll last many hours.”“Only think of that, now! What’s the matter with her?”I couldn’t think of anything reasonable, right off that way, so Isays:“Mumps.”“Mumps your granny! They don’t set up with people that’s got themumps.”“They don’t, don’t they? You better bet they do with _these_ mumps.These mumps is different. It’s a new kind, Miss Mary Jane said.”“How’s it a new kind?”“Because it’s mixed up with other things.”“What other things?”“Well, measles, and whooping-cough, and erysiplas, and consumption,and yaller janders, and brain-fever, and I don’t know what all.”“My land! And they call it the _mumps_?”“That’s what Miss Mary Jane said.”“Well, what in the nation do they call it the _mumps_ for?”“Why, because it _is_ the mumps. That’s what it starts with.”“Well, ther’ ain’t no sense in it. A body might stump his toe, andtake pison, and fall down the well, and break his neck, and bust hisbrains out, and somebody come along and ask what killed him, and somenumskull up and say, ’Why, he stumped his _toe_.’ Would ther’ be anysense in that? _No_. And ther’ ain’t no sense in _this_, nuther. Is itketching?”“Is it _ketching?_ Why, how you talk. Is a _harrow_ catching—in thedark? If you don’t hitch on to one tooth, you’re bound to on another,ain’t you? And you can’t get away with that tooth without fetching thewhole harrow along, can you? Well, these kind of mumps is a kind of aharrow, as you may say—and it ain’t no slouch of a harrow, nuther,you come to get it hitched on good.”“Well, it’s awful, _I_ think,” says the hare-lip. “I’ll go to UncleHarvey and—”“Oh, yes,” I says, “I _would._ Of _course_ I would. I wouldn’t lose notime.”“Well, why wouldn’t you?”“Just look at it a minute, and maybe you can see. Hain’t your unclesobleeged to get along home to England as fast as they can? And do youreckon they’d be mean enough to go off and leave you to go all thatjourney by yourselves? _You_ know they’ll wait for you. So fur, sogood. Your uncle Harvey’s a preacher, ain’t he? Very well, then; is a_preacher_ going to deceive a steamboat clerk? is he going to deceivea _ship clerk?_—so as to get them to let Miss Mary Jane go aboard?Now _you_ know he ain’t. What _will_ he do, then? Why, he’ll say,’It’s a great pity, but my church matters has got to get along thebest way they can; for my niece has been exposed to the dreadfulpluribus-unum mumps, and so it’s my bounden duty to set down here andwait the three months it takes to show on her if she’s got it.’ Butnever mind, if you think it’s best to tell your uncle Harvey—”“Shucks, and stay fooling around here when we could all be having goodtimes in England whilst we was waiting to find out whether Mary Jane’sgot it or not? Why, you talk like a muggins.”“Well, anyway, maybe you’d better tell some of the neighbors.”“Listen at that, now. You do beat all for natural stupidness. Can’tyou _see_ that _they’d_ go and tell? Ther’ ain’t no way but just tonot tell anybody at _all_.”“Well, maybe you’re right—yes, I judge you _are_ right.”“But I reckon we ought to tell Uncle Harvey she’s gone out awhile,anyway, so he won’t be uneasy about her?”“Yes, Miss Mary Jane she wanted you to do that. She says, ’Tell themto give Uncle Harvey and William my love and a kiss, and say I’ve runover the river to see Mr.’—Mr.—what _is_ the name of that richfamily your uncle Peter used to think so much of?—I mean the onethat—”“Why, you must mean the Apthorps, ain’t it?”“Of course; bother them kind of names, a body can’t ever seem toremember them, half the time, somehow. Yes, she said, say she has runover for to ask the Apthorps to be sure and come to the auction andbuy this house, because she allowed her uncle Peter would ruther theyhad it than anybody else; and she’s going to stick to them till theysay they’ll come, and then, if she ain’t too tired, she’s coming home;and if she is, she’ll be home in the morning anyway. She said, don’tsay nothing about the Proctors, but only about the Apthorps—which ’llbe perfectly true, because she _is_ going there to speak about theirbuying the house; I know it, because she told me so herself.”“All right,” they said, and cleared out to lay for their uncles, andgive them the love and the kisses, and tell them the message.Everything was all right now. The girls wouldn’t say nothing becausethey wanted to go to England; and the king and the duke would rutherMary Jane was off working for the auction than around in reach ofDoctor Robinson. I felt very good; I judged I had done it prettyneat—I reckoned Tom Sawyer couldn’t ’a’ done it no neater himself. Ofcourse he would ’a’ throwed more style into it, but I can’t do thatvery handy, not being brung up to it.Well, they held the auction in the public square, along towards theend of the afternoon, and it strung along, and strung along, and theold man he was on hand and looking his level pisonest, up therelongside of the auctioneer, and chipping in a little Scripture now andthen, or a little goody-goody saying of some kind, and the duke he wasaround goo-gooing for sympathy all he knowed how, and just spreadinghimself generly.But by and by the thing dragged through, and everything wassold—everything but a little old trifling lot in the graveyard. Sothey’d got to work _that_ off—I never see such a girafft as the kingwas for wanting to swallow _everything_. Well, whilst they was at it asteamboat landed, and in about two minutes up comes a crowd a-whoopingand yelling and laughing and carrying on, and singing out:“_Here’s_ your opposition line! here’s your two sets o’ heirs to oldPeter Wilks—and you pays your money and you takes your choice!”CHAPTER XXIXThey was fetching a very nice-looking old gentleman along, and anice-looking younger one, with his right arm in a sling. And, mysouls, how the people yelled and laughed, and kept it up. But I didn’tsee no joke about it, and I judged it would strain the duke and theking some to see any. I reckoned they’d turn pale. But no, nary a paledid _they_ turn. The duke he never let on he suspicioned what was up,but just went a goo-gooing around, happy and satisfied, like a jugthat’s googling out buttermilk; and as for the king, he just gazed andgazed down sorrowful on them new-comers like it give him thestomach-ache in his very heart to think there could be such frauds andrascals in the world. Oh, he done it admirable. Lots of the principalpeople gethered around the king, to let him see they was on his side.That old gentleman that had just come looked all puzzled to death.Pretty soon he begun to speak, and I see straight off he pronounced_like_ an Englishman—not the king’s way, though the king’s _was_pretty good for an imitation. I can’t give the old gent’s words, nor Ican’t imitate him; but he turned around to the crowd, and says, aboutlike this:“This is a surprise to me which I wasn’t looking for; and I’llacknowledge, candid and frank, I ain’t very well fixed to meet it andanswer it; for my brother and me has had misfortunes; he’s broke hisarm, and our baggage got put off at a town above here last night inthe night by a mistake. I am Peter Wilks’s brother Harvey, and this ishis brother William, which can’t hear nor speak—and can’t even makesigns to amount to much, now’t he’s only got one hand to work themwith. We are who we say we are; and in a day or two, when I get thebaggage, I can prove it. But up till then I won’t say nothing more,but go to the hotel and wait.”So him and the new dummy started off; and the king he laughs, andblethers out:“Broke his arm—_very_ likely, _ain’t_ it?—and very convenient, too,for a fraud that’s got to make signs, and ain’t learnt how. Lost theirbaggage! That’s _mighty_ good!—and mighty ingenious—under the_circumstances!_”So he laughed again; and so did everybody else, except three or four,or maybe half a dozen. One of these was that doctor; another one was asharp-looking gentleman, with a carpet-bag of the old-fashioned kindmade out of carpet-stuff, that had just come off of the steamboat andwas talking to him in a low voice, and glancing towards the king nowand then and nodding their heads—it was Levi Bell, the lawyer thatwas gone up to Louisville; and another one was a big rough husky thatcome along and listened to all the old gentlemen said, and waslistening to the king now. And when the king got done this husky upand says:“Say, looky here; if you are Harvey Wilks, when’d you come to thistown?”“The day before the funeral, friend,” says the king.“But what time o’ day?”“In the evenin’—’bout an hour er two before sundown.”“How’d you come?”“I come down on the _Susan Powell_ from Cincinnati.”“Well, then, how’d you come to be up at the Pint in the _mornin_’—ina canoe?”“I warn’t up at the Pint in the mornin’.”“It’s a lie.”Several of them jumped for him and begged him not to talk that way toan old man and a preacher.“Preacher be hanged, he’s a fraud and a liar. He was up at the Pintthat mornin’. I live up there, don’t I? Well, I was up there, and hewas up there. I see him there. He come in a canoe, along with TimCollins and a boy.”The doctor he up and says:“Would you know the boy again if you was to see him, Hines?”“I reckon I would, but I don’t know. Why, yonder he is, now. I knowhim perfectly easy.”It was me he pointed at. The doctor says:“Neighbors, I don’t know whether the new couple is frauds or not; butif _these_ two ain’t frauds, I am an idiot, that’s all. I think it’sour duty to see that they don’t get away from here till we’ve lookedinto this thing. Come along, Hines; come along, the rest of you. We’lltake these fellows to the tavern and affront them with t’other couple,and I reckon we’ll find out _something_ before we get through.”It was nuts for the crowd, though maybe not for the king’s friends; sowe all started. It was about sundown. The doctor he led me along bythe hand, and was plenty kind enough, but he never let _go_ my hand.We all got in a big room in the hotel, and lit up some candles, andfetched in the new couple. First, the doctor says:“I don’t wish to be too hard on these two men, but _I_ think they’refrauds, and they may have complices that we don’t know nothing about.If they have, won’t the complices get away with that bag of gold PeterWilks left? It ain’t unlikely. If these men ain’t frauds, they won’tobject to sending for that money and letting us keep it till theyprove they’re all right—ain’t that so?”Everybody agreed to that. So I judged they had our gang in a prettytight place right at the outstart. But the king he only lookedsorrowful, and says:“Gentlemen, I wish the money was there, for I ain’t got no dispositionto throw anything in the way of a fair, open, out-and-outinvestigation o’ this misable business; but, alas, the money ain’tthere; you k’n send and see, if you want to.”“Where is it, then?”“Well, when my niece give it to me to keep for her I took and hid itinside o’ the straw tick o’ my bed, not wishin’ to bank it for the fewdays we’d be here, and considerin’ the bed a safe place, we not bein’used to niggers, and suppos’n’ ’em honest, like servants in England.The niggers stole it the very next mornin’ after I had wentdown-stairs; and when I sold ’em I hadn’t missed the money yit, sothey got clean away with it. My servant here k’n tell you ’bout it,gentlemen.”The doctor and several said “Shucks!” and I see nobody didn’taltogether believe him. One man asked me if I see the niggers stealit. I said no, but I see them sneaking out of the room and hustlingaway, and I never thought nothing, only I reckoned they was afraidthey had waked up my master and was trying to get away before he madetrouble with them. That was all they asked me. Then the doctor whirlson me and says:“Are _you_ English, too?”I says yes; and him and some others laughed, and said, “Stuff!”Well, then they sailed in on the general investigation, and there wehad it, up and down, hour in, hour out, and nobody never said a wordabout supper, nor ever seemed to think about it—and so they kept itup, and kept it up; and it _was_ the worst mixed-up thing you eversee. They made the king tell his yarn, and they made the old gentlemantell his’n; and anybody but a lot of prejudiced chuckleheads would ’a’_seen_ that the old gentleman was spinning truth and t’other one lies.And by and by they had me up to tell what I knowed. The king he giveme a left-handed look out of the corner of his eye, and so I knowedenough to talk on the right side. I begun to tell about Sheffield, andhow we lived there, and all about the English Wilkses, and so on; butI didn’t get pretty fur till the doctor begun to laugh; and Levi Bell,the lawyer, says:“Set down, my boy; I wouldn’t strain myself if I was you. I reckon youain’t used to lying, it don’t seem to come handy; what you want ispractice. You do it pretty awkward.”I didn’t care nothing for the compliment, but I was glad to be letoff, anyway.The doctor he started to say something, and turns and says:“If you’d been in town at first, Levi Bell—”The king broke in and reached out his hand, and says:“Why, is this my poor dead brother’s old friend that he’s wrote sooften about?”The lawyer and him shook hands, and the lawyer smiled and lookedpleased, and they talked right along awhile, and then got to one sideand talked low; and at last the lawyer speaks up and says:“That ’ll fix it. I’ll take the order and send it, along with yourbrother’s, and then they’ll know it’s all right.”So they got some paper and a pen, and the king he set down and twistedhis head to one side, and chawed his tongue, and scrawled offsomething; and then they give the pen to the duke—and then for thefirst time the duke looked sick. But he took the pen and wrote. Sothen the lawyer turns to the new old gentleman and says:“You and your brother please write a line or two and sign your names.”The old gentleman wrote, but nobody couldn’t read it. The lawyerlooked powerful astonished, and says:“Well, it beats _me_—and snaked a lot of old letters out of hispocket, and examined them, and then examined the old man’s writing,and then _them_ again; and then says: “These old letters is fromHarvey Wilks; and here’s _these_ two handwritings, and anybody can see_they_ didn’t write them” (the king and the duke looked sold andfoolish, I tell you, to see how the lawyer had took them in), “andhere’s _this_ old gentleman’s handwriting, and anybody can tell, easyenough, _he_ didn’t write them—fact is, the scratches he makes ain’tproperly _writing_ at all. Now, here’s some letters from—”The new old gentleman says:“If you please, let me explain. Nobody can read my hand but my brotherthere—so he copies for me. It’s _his_ hand you’ve got there, notmine.”“_Well!_” says the lawyer, “this _is_ a state of things. I’ve got someof William’s letters, too; so if you’ll get him to write a line or sowe can com—”“He _can’t_ write with his left hand,” says the old gentleman. “If hecould use his right hand, you would see that he wrote his own lettersand mine too. Look at both, please—they’re by the same hand.”The lawyer done it, and says:“I believe it’s so—and if it ain’t so, there’s a heap strongerresemblance than I’d noticed before, anyway. Well, well, well! Ithought we was right on the track of a slution, but it’s gone tograss, partly. But anyway, _one_ thing is proved—_these_ two ain’teither of ’em Wilkses”—and he wagged his head towards the king andthe duke.Well, what do you think? That mule-headed old fool wouldn’t give in_then!_ Indeed he wouldn’t. Said it warn’t no fair test. Said hisbrother William was the cussedest joker in the world, and hadn’t_tried_ to write—_he_ see William was going to play one of his jokesthe minute he put the pen to paper. And so he warmed up and wentwarbling right along till he was actuly beginning to believe what hewas saying _himself_; but pretty soon the new gentleman broke in, andsays:“I’ve thought of something. Is there anybody here that helped to layout my br—helped to lay out the late Peter Wilks for burying?”“Yes,” says somebody, “me and Ab Turner done it. We’re both here.”Then the old man turns toward the king, and says:“Peraps this gentleman can tell me what was tattooed on his breast?”Blamed if the king didn’t have to brace up mighty quick, or he’d ’a’squshed down like a bluff bank that the river has cut under, it tookhim so sudden; and, mind you, it was a thing that was calculated tomake most _anybody_ sqush to get fetched such a solid one as thatwithout any notice, because how was _he_ going to know what wastattooed on the man? He whitened a little; he couldn’t help it; andit was mighty still in there, and everybody bending a little forwardsand gazing at him. Says I to myself, _Now_ he’ll throw up thesponge—there ain’t no more use. Well, did he? A body can’t hardlybelieve it, but he didn’t. I reckon he thought he’d keep the thing uptill he tired them people out, so they’d thin out, and him and theduke could break loose and get away. Anyway, he set there, and prettysoon he begun to smile, and says:“Mf! It’s a _very_ tough question, _ain’t_ it! _Yes_, sir, I k’n tellyou what’s tattooed on his breast. It’s jest a small, thin, bluearrow—that’s what it is; and if you don’t look clost, you can’t seeit. _Now_ what do you say—hey?”Well, _I_ never see anything like that old blister for cleanout-and-out cheek.The new old gentleman turns brisk towards Ab Turner and his pard, andhis eye lights up like he judged he’d got the king _this_ time, andsays:“There—you’ve heard what he said! Was there any such mark on PeterWilks’s breast?”Both of them spoke up and says:“We didn’t see no such mark.”“Good!” says the old gentleman. “Now, what you _did_ see on his breastwas a small dim P, and a B (which is an initial he dropped when he wasyoung), and a W, and dashes between them, so: P—B—W”—and he markedthem that way on a piece of paper. “Come, ain’t that what you saw?”Both of them spoke up again, and says:“No, we _didn’t_. We never seen any marks at all.”Well, everybody _was_ in a state of mind now, and they sings out:“The whole _bilin’_ of ’m ’s frauds! Le’s duck ’em! le’s drown ’em!le’s ride ’em on a rail!” and everybody was whooping at once, andthere was a rattling powwow. But the lawyer he jumps on the table andyells, and says:“Gentlemen—gentle_men!_ Hear me just a word—just a _single_ word—ifyou PLEASE! There’s one way yet—let’s go and dig up the corpse andlook.”That took them.“Hooray!” they all shouted, and was starting right off; but the lawyerand the doctor sung out:“Hold on, hold on! Collar all these four men and the boy, and fetch_them_ along, too!”“We’ll do it!” they all shouted; “and if we don’t find them markswe’ll lynch the whole gang!”I _was_ scared, now, I tell you. But there warn’t no getting away, youknow. They gripped us all, and marched us right along, straight forthe graveyard, which was a mile and a half down the river, and thewhole town at our heels, for we made noise enough, and it was onlynine in the evening.As we went by our house I wished I hadn’t sent Mary Jane out of town;because now if I could tip her the wink she’d light out and save me,and blow on our dead-beats.Well, we swarmed along down the river road, just carrying on likewildcats; and to make it more scary the sky was darking up, and thelightning beginning to wink and flitter, and the wind to shiveramongst the leaves. This was the most awful trouble and mostdangersome I ever was in; and I was kinder stunned; everything wasgoing so different from what I had allowed for; stead of being fixedso I could take my own time if I wanted to, and see all the fun, andhave Mary Jane at my back to save me and set me free when theclose-fit come, here was nothing in the world betwixt me and suddendeath but just them tattoo-marks. If they didn’t find them—I couldn’t bear to think about it; and yet, somehow, I couldn’t thinkabout nothing else. It got darker and darker, and it was a beautifultime to give the crowd the slip; but that big husky had me by thewrist—Hines—and a body might as well try to give Goliar the slip. Hedragged me right along, he was so excited, and I had to run to keepup.When they got there they swarmed into the graveyard and washed over itlike an overflow. And when they got to the grave they found they hadabout a hundred times as many shovels as they wanted, but nobodyhadn’t thought to fetch a lantern. But they sailed into digging anywayby the flicker of the lightning, and sent a man to the nearest house,a half a mile off, to borrow one.So they dug and dug like everything; and it got awful dark, and therain started, and the wind swished and swushed along, and thelightning come brisker and brisker, and the thunder boomed; but thempeople never took no notice of it, they was so full of this business;and one minute you could see everything and every face in that bigcrowd, and the shovelfuls of dirt sailing up out of the grave, and thenext second the dark wiped it all out, and you couldn’t see nothing atall.At last they got out the coffin and begun to unscrew the lid, and thensuch another crowding and shouldering and shoving as there was, toscrouge in and get a sight, you never see; and in the dark, that way,it was awful. Hines he hurt my wrist dreadful pulling and tugging so,and I reckon he clean forgot I was in the world, he was so excited andpanting.All of a sudden the lightning let go a perfect sluice of white glare,and somebody sings out:“By the living jingo, here’s the bag of gold on his breast!”Hines let out a whoop, like everybody else, and dropped my wrist andgive a big surge to bust his way in and get a look, and the way I litout and shinned for the road in the dark there ain’t nobody can tell.I had the road all to myself, and I fairly flew—leastways, I had itall to myself except the solid dark, and the now-and-then glares, andthe buzzing of the rain, and the thrashing of the wind, and thesplitting of the thunder; and sure as you are born I did clip italong!When I struck the town I see there warn’t nobody out in the storm, soI never hunted for no back streets, but humped it straight through themain one; and when I begun to get towards our house I aimed my eye andset it. No light there; the house all dark—which made me feel sorryand disappointed, I didn’t know why. But at last, just as I wassailing by, _flash_ comes the light in Mary Jane’s window! and myheart swelled up sudden, like to bust; and the same second the houseand all was behind me in the dark, and wasn’t ever going to be beforeme no more in this world. She _was_ the best girl I ever see, and hadthe most sand.The minute I was far enough above the town to see I could make thetowhead, I begun to look sharp for a boat to borrow, and the firsttime the lightning showed me one that wasn’t chained I snatched it andshoved. It was a canoe, and warn’t fastened with nothing but a rope.The towhead was a rattling big distance off, away out there in themiddle of the river, but I didn’t lose no time; and when I struck theraft at last I was so fagged I would ’a’ just laid down to blow andgasp if I could afforded it. But I didn’t. As I sprung aboard I sungout:“Out with you, Jim, and set her loose! Glory be to goodness, we’reshut of them!”Jim lit out, and was a-coming for me with both arms spread, he was sofull of joy; but when I glimpsed him in the lightning my heart shot upin my mouth and I went overboard backwards; for I forgot he was oldKing Lear and a drownded A-rab all in one, and it most scared thelivers and lights out of me. But Jim fished me out, and was going tohug me and bless me, and so on, he was so glad I was back and we wasshut of the king and the duke, but I says:“Not now; have it for breakfast, have it for breakfast! Cut loose andlet her slide!”So in two seconds away we went a-sliding down the river, and it _did_seem so good to be free again and all by ourselves on the big river,and nobody to bother us. I had to skip around a bit, and jump up andcrack my heels a few times—I couldn’t help it; but about the thirdcrack I noticed a sound that I knowed mighty well, and held my breathand listened and waited; and sure enough, when the next flash bustedout over the water, here they come!—and just a-laying to their oarsand making their skiff hum! It was the king and the duke.So I wilted right down onto the planks then, and give up; and it wasall I could do to keep from crying.CHAPTER XXXWhen they got aboard the king went for me, and shook me by the collar,and says:“Tryin’ to give us the slip, was ye, you pup! Tired of our company,hey?”I says:“No, your majesty, we warn’t—_please_ don’t, your majesty!”“Quick, then, and tell us what _was_ your idea, or I’ll shake theinsides out o’ you!”“Honest, I’ll tell you everything just as it happened, your majesty.The man that had a-holt of me was very good to me, and kept saying hehad a boy about as big as me that died last year, and he was sorry tosee a boy in such a dangerous fix; and when they was all took bysurprise by finding the gold, and made a rush for the coffin, he letsgo of me and whispers, ’Heel it now, or they’ll hang ye, sure!’ and Ilit out. It didn’t seem no good for _me_ to stay—_I_ couldn’t donothing, and I didn’t want to be _hung_ if I could get away. So Inever stopped running till I found the canoe; and when I got here Itold Jim to hurry, or they’d catch me and hang me yet, and said I wasafeard you and the duke wasn’t alive now, and I was awful sorry, andso was Jim, and was awful glad when we see you coming; you may ask Jimif I didn’t.”Jim said it was so; and the king told him to shut up, and said, “Oh,yes, it’s _mighty_ likely!” and shook me up again, and said he reckonedhe’d drownd me. But the duke says:“Leggo the boy, you old idiot! Would _you_ ’a’ done any different?Did you inquire around for _him_ when you got loose? _I_ don’t rememberit.”So the king let go of me, and begun to cuss that town and everybody init. But the duke says:“You better a blame’ sight give _yourself_ a good cussing, for you’rethe one that’s entitled to it most. You hain’t done a thing from thestart that had any sense in it, except coming out so cool and cheekywith that imaginary blue-arrow mark. That _was_ bright—it was rightdown bully; and it was the thing that saved us. For if it hadn’t beenfor that they’d ’a’ jailed us till them Englishmen’s baggage come—andthen—the penitentiary, you bet! But that trick took ’em to thegraveyard, and the gold done us a still bigger kindness; for if theexcited fools hadn’t let go all holts and made that rush to get a lookwe’d ’a’ slept in our cravats to-night—cravats warranted to _wear_,too—longer than _we’d_ need ’em.”They was still a minute—thinking; then the king says, kind ofabsent-minded like:“Mf! And we reckoned the _niggers_ stole it!”That made me squirm!“Yes,” says the duke, kinder slow and deliberate and sarcastic, “_we_did.”After about a half a minute the king drawls out:“Leastways, _I_ did.”The duke says, the same way:“On the contrary, _I_ did.”The king kind of ruffles up, and says:“Looky here, Bilgewater, what’r you referrin’ to?” The duke says,pretty brisk:“When it comes to that, maybe you’ll let me ask what was _you_referring to?”“Shucks!” says the king, very sarcastic; “but _I_ don’t know—maybeyou was asleep, and didn’t know what you was about.”The duke bristles up now, and says:“Oh, let _up_ on this cussed nonsense; do you take me for a blame’fool? Don’t you reckon _I_ know who hid that money in that coffin?”“_Yes_, sir! I know you _do_ know, because you done it yourself!”“It’s a lie!”—and the duke went for him. The king sings out:“Take y’r hands off!—leggo my throat!—I take it all back!”The duke says:“Well, you just own up, first, that you _did_ hide that money there,intending to give me the slip one of these days, and come back and digit up, and have it all to yourself.”“Wait jest a minute, duke—answer me this one question, honest andfair; if you didn’t put the money there, say it, and I’ll b’lieve you,and take back everything I said.”“You old scoundrel, I didn’t, and you know I didn’t. There, now!”“Well, then, I b’lieve you. But answer me only jest this one more—now_don’t_ git mad; didn’t you have it in your _mind_ to hook the money andhide it?”The duke never said nothing for a little bit; then he says:“Well, I don’t care if I _did_, I didn’t _do_ it, anyway. But you notonly had it in mind to do it, but you _done_ it.”“I wisht I never die if I done it, duke, and that’s honest. I won’tsay I warn’t _goin’_ to do it, because I _was_; but you—I meansomebody—got in ahead o’ me.”“It’s a lie! You done it, and you got to _say_ you done it, or—”The king began to gurgle, and then he gasps out:“’Nough!—_I own up!_”I was very glad to hear him say that; it made me feel much more easierthan what I was feeling before. So the duke took his hands off andsays:“If you ever deny it again I’ll drown you. It’s _well_ for you to setthere and blubber like a baby—it’s fitten for you, after the wayyou’ve acted. I never see such an old ostrich for wanting to gobbleeverything—and I a-trusting you all the time, like you was my ownfather. You ought to been ashamed of yourself to stand by and hear itsaddled on to a lot of poor niggers, and you never say a word for ’em.It makes me feel ridiculous to think I was soft enough to _believe_that rubbage. Cuss you, I can see now why you was so anxious to makeup the deffisit—you wanted to get what money I’d got out of the‘Nonesuch’ and one thing or another, and scoop it _all!_”The king says, timid, and still a-snuffling:“Why, duke, it was you that said make up the deffersit; it warn’t me.”“Dry up! I don’t want to hear no more _out_ of you!” says the duke. “And_now_ you see what you _got_ by it. They’ve got all their own moneyback, and all of _ourn_ but a shekel or two _besides_. G’long to bed,and don’t you deffersit _me_ no more deffersits, long ’s _you_ live!”So the king sneaked into the wigwam and took to his bottle forcomfort, and before long the duke tackled _his_ bottle; and so inabout a half an hour they was as thick as thieves again, and thetighter they got the lovinger they got, and went off a-snoring in eachother’s arms. They both got powerful mellow, but I noticed the kingdidn’t get mellow enough to forget to remember to not deny abouthiding the money-bag again. That made me feel easy and satisfied. Ofcourse when they got to snoring we had a long gabble, and I told Jimeverything.CHAPTER XXXIWe dasn’t stop again at any town for days and days; kept right alongdown the river. We was down south in the warm weather now, and amighty long ways from home. We begun to come to trees with Spanishmoss on them, hanging down from the limbs like long, gray beards. Itwas the first I ever see it growing, and it made the woods look solemnand dismal. So now the frauds reckoned they was out of danger, andthey begun to work the villages again.First they done a lecture on temperance; but they didn’t make enoughfor them both to get drunk on. Then in another village they started adancing-school; but they didn’t know no more how to dance than akangaroo does; so the first prance they made the general public jumpedin and pranced them out of town. Another time they tried to go atyellocution; but they didn’t yellocute long till the audience got upand give them a solid good cussing, and made them skip out. Theytackled missionarying, and mesmerizing, and doctoring, and tellingfortunes, and a little of everything; but they couldn’t seem to haveno luck. So at last they got just about dead broke, and laid aroundthe raft as she floated along, thinking and thinking, and never sayingnothing, by the half a day at a time, and dreadful blue and desperate.And at last they took a change and begun to lay their heads togetherin the wigwam and talk low and confidential two or three hours at atime. Jim and me got uneasy. We didn’t like the look of it. We judgedthey was studying up some kind of worse deviltry than ever. We turnedit over and over, and at last we made up our minds they was going tobreak into somebody’s house or store, or was going into thecounterfeit-money business, or something. So then we was prettyscared, and made up an agreement that we wouldn’t have nothing in theworld to do with such actions, and if we ever got the least show wewould give them the cold shake and clear out and leave them behind.Well, early one morning we hid the raft in a good, safe place abouttwo mile below a little bit of a shabby village named Pikesville, andthe king he went ashore and told us all to stay hid whilst he went upto town and smelt around to see if anybody had got any wind of the“Royal Nonesuch” there yet. (“House to rob, you _mean_,” says I tomyself; “and when you get through robbing it you’ll come back here andwonder what has become of me and Jim and the raft—and you’ll have totake it out in wondering.”) And he said if he warn’t back by middaythe duke and me would know it was all right, and we was to come along.So we stayed where we was. The duke he fretted and sweated around, andwas in a mighty sour way. He scolded us for everything, and wecouldn’t seem to do nothing right; he found fault with every littlething. Something was a-brewing, sure. I was good and glad when middaycome and no king; we could have a change, anyway—and maybe a chancefor _the_ chance on top of it. So me and the duke went up to thevillage, and hunted around there for the king, and by and by we foundhim in the back room of a little low doggery, very tight, and a lot ofloafers bullyragging him for sport, and he a-cussing and a-threateningwith all his might, and so tight he couldn’t walk, and couldn’t donothing to them. The duke he begun to abuse him for an old fool, andthe king begun to sass back, and the minute they was fairly at it Ilit out and shook the reefs out of my hind legs, and spun down theriver road like a deer, for I see our chance; and I made up my mindthat it would be a long day before they ever see me and Jim again. Igot down there all out of breath but loaded up with joy, and sung out:“Set her loose, Jim; we’re all right now!”But there warn’t no answer, and nobody come out of the wigwam. Jim wasgone! I set up a shout—and then another—and then another one; andrun this way and that in the woods, whooping and screeching; but itwarn’t no use—old Jim was gone. Then I set down and cried; I couldn’thelp it. But I couldn’t set still long. Pretty soon I went out on theroad, trying to think what I better do, and I run across a boywalking, and asked him if he’d seen a strange nigger dressed so andso, and he says:“Yes.”“Whereabouts?” says I.“Down to Silas Phelps’s place, two mile below here. He’s a runawaynigger, and they’ve got him. Was you looking for him?”“You bet I ain’t! I run across him in the woods about an hour or twoago, and he said if I hollered he’d cut my livers out—and told me tolay down and stay where I was; and I done it. Been there ever since;afeard to come out.”“Well,” he says, “you needn’t be afeard no more, becuz they’ve gothim. He run off f’m down South som’ers.”“It’s a good job they got him.”“Well, I _reckon!_ There’s two hundred dollars reward on him.It’s like picking up money out’n the road.”“Yes, it is—and _I_ could ’a’ had it if I’d been big enough; I see him_first_. Who nailed him?”“It was an old fellow—a stranger—and he sold out his chance in himfor forty dollars, becuz he’s got to go up the river and can’t wait.Think o’ that, now! You bet _I’d_ wait, if it was seven year.”“That’s me, every time,” says I. “But maybe his chance ain’t worth nomore than that, if he’ll sell it so cheap. Maybe there’s somethingain’t straight about it.”“But it _is_, though—straight as a string. I see the handbill myself.It tells all about him, to a dot—paints him like a picture, and tellsthe plantation he’s frum, below Newr_leans_. No-sirree-_bob_, theyain’t no trouble ’bout _that_ speculation, you bet you. Say, gimme achaw tobacker, won’t ye?”I didn’t have none, so he left. I went to the raft, and set down inthe wigwam to think. But I couldn’t come to nothing. I thought till Iwore my head sore, but I couldn’t see no way out of the trouble. Afterall this long journey, and after all we’d done for them scoundrels,here it was all come to nothing, everything all busted up and ruined,because they could have the heart to serve Jim such a trick as that,and make him a slave again all his life, and amongst strangers, too,for forty dirty dollars.Once I said to myself it would be a thousand times better for Jim tobe a slave at home where his family was, as long as he’d _got_ to be aslave, and so I’d better write a letter to Tom Sawyer and tell him totell Miss Watson where he was. But I soon give up that notion for twothings: she’d be mad and disgusted at his rascality and ungratefulnessfor leaving her, and so she’d sell him straight down the river again;and if she didn’t, everybody naturally despises an ungrateful nigger,and they’d make Jim feel it all the time, and so he’d feel ornery anddisgraced. And then think of _me!_ It would get all around that HuckFinn helped a nigger to get his freedom; and if I was ever to seeanybody from that town again I’d be ready to get down and lick hisboots for shame. That’s just the way: a person does a low-down thing,and then he don’t want to take no consequences of it. Thinks as longas he can hide, it ain’t no disgrace. That was my fix exactly. Themore I studied about this the more my conscience went to grinding me,and the more wicked and low-down and ornery I got to feeling. And atlast, when it hit me all of a sudden that here was the plain hand ofProvidence slapping me in the face and letting me know my wickednesswas being watched all the time from up there in heaven, whilst I wasstealing a poor old woman’s nigger that hadn’t ever done me no harm,and now was showing me there’s One that’s always on the lookout, andain’t a-going to allow no such miserable doings to go only just so furand no further, I most dropped in my tracks I was so scared. Well, Itried the best I could to kinder soften it up somehow for myself bysaying I was brung up wicked, and so I warn’t so much to blame; butsomething inside of me kept saying, “There was the Sunday-school, youcould ’a’ gone to it; and if you’d ’a’ done it they’d ’a’ learnt youthere that people that acts as I’d been acting about that nigger goesto everlasting fire.”It made me shiver. And I about made up my mind to pray, and see if Icouldn’t try to quit being the kind of a boy I was and be better. So Ikneeled down. But the words wouldn’t come. Why wouldn’t they? Itwarn’t no use to try and hide it from Him. Nor from _me_, neither. Iknowed very well why they wouldn’t come. It was because my heartwarn’t right; it was because I warn’t square; it was because I wasplaying double. I was letting _on_ to give up sin, but away inside ofme I was holding on to the biggest one of all. I was trying to make mymouth _say_ I would do the right thing and the clean thing, and go andwrite to that nigger’s owner and tell where he was; but deep down inme I knowed it was a lie, and He knowed it. You can’t pray a lie—Ifound that out.So I was full of trouble, full as I could be; and didn’t know what todo. At last I had an idea; and I says, I’ll go and write theletter—and _then_ see if I can pray. Why, it was astonishing, the way Ifelt as light as a feather right straight off, and my troubles allgone. So I got a piece of paper and a pencil, all glad and excited,and set down and wrote:Miss Watson, your runaway nigger Jim is down here two mile belowPikesville, and Mr. Phelps has got him and he will give him up for thereward if you send. HUCK FINN.I felt good and all washed clean of sin for the first time I had everfelt so in my life, and I knowed I could pray now. But I didn’t do itstraight off, but laid the paper down and set there thinking—thinkinghow good it was all this happened so, and how near I come to beinglost and going to hell. And went on thinking. And got to thinking overour trip down the river; and I see Jim before me all the time: in theday and in the night-time, sometimes moonlight, sometimes storms, andwe a-floating along, talking and singing and laughing. But somehow Icouldn’t seem to strike no places to harden me against him, but onlythe other kind. I’d see him standing my watch on top of his’n, ’steadof calling me, so I could go on sleeping; and see him how glad he waswhen I come back out of the fog; and when I come to him again in theswamp, up there where the feud was; and such-like times; and wouldalways call me honey, and pet me, and do everything he could think offor me, and how good he always was; and at last I struck the time Isaved him by telling the men we had smallpox aboard, and he was sograteful, and said I was the best friend old Jim ever had in theworld, and the _only_ one he’s got now; and then I happened to lookaround and see that paper.It was a close place. I took it up, and held it in my hand. I wasa-trembling, because I’d got to decide, forever, betwixt two things,and I knowed it. I studied a minute, sort of holding my breath, andthen says to myself:“All right, then, I’ll _go_ to hell”—and tore it up.It was awful thoughts and awful words, but they was said. And I letthem stay said; and never thought no more about reforming. I shoved thewhole thing out of my head, and said I would take up wickedness again,which was in my line, being brung up to it, and the other warn’t. Andfor a starter I would go to work and steal Jim out of slavery again;and if I could think up anything worse, I would do that, too; becauseas long as I was in, and in for good, I might as well go the whole hog.Then I set to thinking over how to get at it, and turned over someconsiderable many ways in my mind; and at last fixed up a plan thatsuited me. So then I took the bearings of a woody island that was downthe river a piece, and as soon as it was fairly dark I crept out withmy raft and went for it, and hid it there, and then turned in. I sleptthe night through, and got up before it was light, and had mybreakfast, and put on my store clothes, and tied up some others andone thing or another in a bundle, and took the canoe and cleared forshore. I landed below where I judged was Phelps’s place, and hid mybundle in the woods, and then filled up the canoe with water, andloaded rocks into her and sunk her where I could find her again when Iwanted her, about a quarter of a mile below a little steam-sawmillthat was on the bank.Then I struck up the road, and when I passed the mill I see a sign onit, “Phelps’s Sawmill,” and when I come to the farm-houses, two orthree hundred yards further along, I kept my eyes peeled, but didn’tsee nobody around, though it was good daylight now. But I didn’t mind,because I didn’t want to see nobody just yet—I only wanted to get thelay of the land. According to my plan, I was going to turn up therefrom the village, not from below. So I just took a look, and shovedalong, straight for town. Well, the very first man I see when I gotthere was the duke. He was sticking up a bill for the “RoyalNonesuch”—three-night performance—like that other time. _They_ had thecheek, them frauds! I was right on him before I could shirk. He lookedastonished, and says:“Hel-_lo!_ Where’d _you_ come from?” Then he says, kind of glad andeager, “Where’s the raft?—got her in a good place?”I says:“Why, that’s just what I was going to ask your grace.”Then he didn’t look so joyful, and says:“What was your idea for asking _me?_” he says.“Well,” I says, “when I see the king in that doggery yesterday I saysto myself, we can’t get him home for hours, till he’s soberer; so Iwent a-loafing around town to put in the time and wait. A man up andoffered me ten cents to help him pull a skiff over the river and backto fetch a sheep, and so I went along; but when we was dragging him tothe boat, and the man left me a-holt of the rope and went behind himto shove him along, he was too strong for me and jerked loose and run,and we after him. We didn’t have no dog, and so we had to chase himall over the country till we tired him out. We never got him tilldark; then we fetched him over, and I started down for the raft. WhenI got there and see it was gone, I says to myself, ’They’ve got intotrouble and had to leave; and they’ve took my nigger, which is theonly nigger I’ve got in the world, and now I’m in a strange country,and ain’t got no property no more, nor nothing, and no way to make myliving’; so I set down and cried. I slept in the woods all night. Butwhat _did_ become of the raft, then?—and Jim—poor Jim!”“Blamed if _I_ know—that is, what’s become of the raft. That old foolhad made a trade and got forty dollars, and when we found him in thedoggery the loafers had matched half-dollars with him and got everycent but what he’d spent for whisky; and when I got him home late lastnight and found the raft gone, we said, ‘That little rascal has stoleour raft and shook us, and run off down the river.’”“I wouldn’t shake my _nigger_, would I?—the only nigger I had in theworld, and the only property.”“We never thought of that. Fact is, I reckon we’d come to consider him_our_ nigger; yes, we did consider him so—goodness knows we hadtrouble enough for him. So when we see the raft was gone and we flatbroke, there warn’t anything for it but to try the ‘Royal Nonesuch’another shake. And I’ve pegged along ever since, dry as a powder-horn.Where’s that ten cents? Give it here.”I had considerable money, so I give him ten cents, but begged him tospend it for something to eat, and give me some, because it was allthe money I had, and I hadn’t had nothing to eat since yesterday. Henever said nothing. The next minute he whirls on me and says:“Do you reckon that nigger would blow on us? We’d skin him if he donethat!”“How can he blow? Hain’t he run off?”“No! That old fool sold him, and never divided with me, and themoney’s gone.”“_Sold_ him?” I says, and begun to cry; “why, he was _my_ nigger, andthat was my money. Where is he?—I want my nigger.”“Well, you can’t _get_ your nigger, that’s all—so dry up yourblubbering. Looky here—do you think _you’d_ venture to blow on us?Blamed if I think I’d trust you. Why, if you _was_ to blow on us—”He stopped, but I never see the duke look so ugly out of his eyesbefore. I went on a-whimpering, and says:“I don’t want to blow on nobody; and I ain’t got no time to blow,nohow; I got to turn out and find my nigger.”He looked kinder bothered, and stood there with his bills flutteringon his arm, thinking, and wrinkling up his forehead. At last he says:“I’ll tell you something. We got to be here three days. If you’llpromise you won’t blow, and won’t let the nigger blow, I’ll tell youwhere to find him.”So I promised, and he says:“A farmer by the name of Silas Ph—” and then he stopped. You see, hestarted to tell me the truth; but when he stopped that way, and begunto study and think again, I reckoned he was changing his mind. And sohe was. He wouldn’t trust me; he wanted to make sure of having me outof the way the whole three days. So pretty soon he says:“The man that bought him is named Abram Foster—Abram G. Foster—andhe lives forty mile back here in the country, on the road toLafayette.”“All right,” I says, “I can walk it in three days. And I’ll start thisvery afternoon.”“No you won’t, you’ll start _now_; and don’t you lose any time aboutit, neither, nor do any gabbling by the way. Just keep a tight tonguein your head and move right along, and then you won’t get into troublewith _us_, d’ye hear?”That was the order I wanted, and that was the one I played for. Iwanted to be left free to work my plans.“So clear out,” he says; “and you can tell Mr. Foster whatever youwant to. Maybe you can get him to believe that Jim _is_ yournigger—some idiots don’t require documents—leastways I’ve heardthere’s such down South here. And when you tell him the handbill andthe reward’s bogus, maybe he’ll believe you when you explain to himwhat the idea was for getting ’em out. Go ’long now, and tell himanything you want to; but mind you don’t work your jaw any _between_here and there.”So I left, and struck for the back country. I didn’t look around, butI kinder felt like he was watching me. But I knowed I could tire himout at that. I went straight out in the country as much as a milebefore I stopped; then I doubled back through the woods towardsPhelps’s. I reckoned I better start in on my plan straight off withoutfooling around, because I wanted to stop Jim’s mouth till thesefellows could get away. I didn’t want no trouble with their kind. I’dseen all I wanted to of them, and wanted to get entirely shut of them.CHAPTER XXXIIWhen I got there it was all still and Sunday-like, and hot andsunshiny; the hands was gone to the fields; and there was them kind offaint dronings of bugs and flies in the air that makes it seem solonesome and like everybody’s dead and gone; and if a breeze fansalong and quivers the leaves it makes you feel mournful, because youfeel like it’s spirits whispering—spirits that’s been dead ever somany years—and you always think they’re talking about _you._ As ageneral thing it makes a body wish _he_ was dead, too, and done withit all.Phelps’s was one of these little one-horse cotton plantations, andthey all look alike. A rail fence round a two-acre yard; a stile madeout of logs sawed off and up-ended in steps, like barrels of adifferent length, to climb over the fence with, and for the women tostand on when they are going to jump onto a horse; some sicklygrass-patches in the big yard, but mostly it was bare and smooth, likean old hat with the nap rubbed off; big double log house for the whitefolks—hewed logs, with the chinks stopped up with mud or mortar, andthese mud-stripes been whitewashed some time or another; round-logkitchen, with a big broad, open but roofed passage joining it to thehouse; log smokehouse back of the kitchen; three little nigger cabinsin a row t’other side the smokehouse; one little hut all by itselfaway down against the back fence, and some outbuildings down a piecethe other side; ash-hopper and big kettle to bile soap in by thelittle hut; bench by the kitchen door, with bucket of water and agourd; hound asleep there in the sun; more hounds asleep round about;about three shade trees away off in a corner; some currant bushes andgooseberry bushes in one place by the fence; outside of the fence agarden and a watermelon patch; then the cotton-fields begins, andafter the fields the woods.I went around and clumb over the back stile by the ash-hopper, andstarted for the kitchen. When I got a little ways I heard the dim humof a spinning-wheel wailing along up and sinking along down again; andthen I knowed for certain I wished I was dead—for that _is_ thelonesomest sound in the whole world.I went right along, not fixing up any particular plan, but justtrusting to Providence to put the right words in my mouth when thetime come; for I’d noticed that Providence always did put the rightwords in my mouth if I left it alone.When I got half-way, first one hound and then another got up and wentfor me, and of course I stopped and faced them, and kept still. Andsuch another powwow as they made! In a quarter of a minute I was akind of a hub of a wheel, as you may say—spokes made out ofdogs—circle of fifteen of them packed together around me, with theirnecks and noses stretched up towards me, a-barking and howling; andmore a-coming; you could see them sailing over fences and aroundcorners from everywheres.A nigger woman come tearing out of the kitchen with a rolling-pin inher hand, singing out, “Begone! _you_ Tige! you Spot! begone sah!” andshe fetched first one and then another of them a clip and sent themhowling, and then the rest followed; and the next second half of themcome back, wagging their tails around me, and making friends with me.There ain’t no harm in a hound, nohow.And behind the woman comes a little nigger girl and two little niggerboys without anything on but tow-linen shirts, and they hung on totheir mother’s gown, and peeped out from behind her at me, bashful,the way they always do. And here comes the white woman running fromthe house, about forty-five or fifty year old, bareheaded, and herspinning-stick in her hand; and behind her comes her little whitechildren, acting the same way the little niggers was going. She wassmiling all over so she could hardly stand—and says:“It’s _you_, at last!—_ain’t_ it?”I out with a “Yes’m” before I thought.She grabbed me and hugged me tight; and then gripped me by both handsand shook and shook; and the tears come in her eyes, and run downover; and she couldn’t seem to hug and shake enough, and kept saying,“You don’t look as much like your mother as I reckoned you would; butlaw sakes, I don’t care for that, I’m _so_ glad to see you! Dear, dear,it does seem like I could eat you up! Children, it’s your cousinTom!—tell him howdy.”But they ducked their heads, and put their fingers in their mouths,and hid behind her. So she run on:“Lize, hurry up and get him a hot breakfast right away—or did you getyour breakfast on the boat?”I said I had got it on the boat. So then she started for the house,leading me by the hand, and the children tagging after. When we gotthere she set me down in a split-bottomed chair, and set herself downon a little low stool in front of me, holding both of my hands, andsays:“Now I can have a _good_ look at you; and, laws-a-me, I’ve been hungryfor it a many and a many a time, all these long years, and it’s comeat last! We been expecting you a couple of days and more. What kep’you?—boat get aground?”“Yes’m—she—”“Don’t say yes’m—say Aunt Sally. Where’d she get aground?”I didn’t rightly know what to say, because I didn’t know whether theboat would be coming up the river or down. But I go a good deal oninstinct; and my instinct said she would be coming up—from downtowards Orleans. That didn’t help me much, though; for I didn’t knowthe names of bars down that way. I see I’d got to invent a bar, orforget the name of the one we got aground on—or—Now I struck anidea, and fetched it out:“It warn’t the grounding—that didn’t keep us back but a little. Weblowed out a cylinder-head.”“Good gracious! anybody hurt?”“No’m. Killed a nigger.”“Well, it’s lucky; because sometimes people do get hurt. Two years agolast Christmas your uncle Silas was coming up from Newrleans on theold Lally Rook, and she blowed out a cylinder-head and crippled a man.And I think he died afterwards. He was a Baptist. Your uncle Silasknowed a family in Baton Rouge that knowed his people very well. Yes,I remember now, he _did_ die. Mortification set in, and they had toamputate him. But it didn’t save him. Yes, it was mortification—thatwas it. He turned blue all over, and died in the hope of a gloriousresurrection. They say he was a sight to look at. Your uncle’s been upto the town every day to fetch you. And he’s gone again, not more’n anhour ago; he’ll be back any minute now. You must ’a’ met him on theroad, didn’t you?—oldish man, with a—”“No, I didn’t see nobody, Aunt Sally. The boat landed just atdaylight, and I left my baggage on the wharf-boat and went lookingaround the town and out a piece in the country, to put in the time andnot get here too soon; and so I come down the back way.”“Who’d you give the baggage to?”“Nobody.”“Why, child, it ’ll be stole!”“Not where _I_ hid it I reckon it won’t,” I says.“How’d you get your breakfast so early on the boat?”It was kinder thin ice, but I says:“The captain see me standing around, and told me I better havesomething to eat before I went ashore; so he took me in the texas tothe officers’ lunch, and give me all I wanted.”I was getting so uneasy I couldn’t listen good. I had my mind on thechildren all the time; I wanted to get them out to one side and pumpthem a little, and find out who I was. But I couldn’t get no show,Mrs. Phelps kept it up and run on so. Pretty soon she made the coldchills streak all down my back, because she says:“But here we’re a-running on this way, and you hain’t told me a wordabout Sis, nor any of them. Now I’ll rest my works a little, and youstart up yourn; just tell me _everything_—tell me all about ’mall—every one of ’m; and how they are, and what they’re doing, andwhat they told you to tell me; and every last thing you can think of.”Well, I see I was up a stump—and up it good. Providence had stood byme this fur all right, but I was hard and tight aground now. I see itwarn’t a bit of use to try to go ahead—I’d _got_ to throw up my hand.So I says to myself, here’s another place where I got to resk thetruth. I opened my mouth to begin; but she grabbed me and hustled mein behind the bed, and says:“Here he comes! Stick your head down lower—there, that’ll do; youcan’t be seen now. Don’t you let on you’re here. I’ll play a joke onhim. Children, don’t you say a word.”I see I was in a fix now. But it warn’t no use to worry; therewarn’t nothing to do but just hold still, and try and be ready tostand from under when the lightning struck.I had just one little glimpse of the old gentleman when he come in;then the bed hid him. Mrs. Phelps she jumps for him, and says:“Has he come?”“No,” says her husband.“Good-_ness_ gracious!” she says, “what in the world _can_ have becomeof him?”“I can’t imagine,” says the old gentleman; “and I must say it makes medreadful uneasy.”“Uneasy!” she says; “I’m ready to go distracted! He _must_ ’a’ come;and you’ve missed him along the road. I _know_ it’s so—something_tells_ me so.”“Why, Sally, I _couldn’t_ miss him along the road—_you_ know that.”“But oh, dear, dear, what _will_ Sis say! He must ’a’ come! You must’a’ missed him. He—”“Oh, don’t distress me any more’n I’m already distressed. I don’t knowwhat in the world to make of it. I’m at my wit’s end, and I don’t mindacknowledging ’t I’m right down scared. But there’s no hope that he’scome; for he _couldn’t_ come and me miss him. Sally, it’sterrible—just terrible—something’s happened to the boat, sure!”“Why, Silas! Look yonder!—up the road!—ain’t that somebody coming?”He sprung to the window at the head of the bed, and that giveMrs. Phelps the chance she wanted. She stooped down quick at the footof the bed and give me a pull, and out I come; and when he turned backfrom the window there she stood, a-beaming and a-smiling like a houseafire, and I standing pretty meek and sweaty alongside. The oldgentleman stared, and says:“Why, who’s that?”“Who do you reckon ’tis?”“I hain’t no idea. Who _is_ it?”“It’s _Tom Sawyer!_”By jings, I most slumped through the floor! But there warn’t no timeto swap knives; the old man grabbed me by the hand and shook, and kepton shaking; and all the time how the woman did dance around and laughand cry; and then how they both did fire off questions about Sid, andMary, and the rest of the tribe.But if they was joyful, it warn’t nothing to what I was; for it waslike being born again, I was so glad to find out who I was. Well, theyfroze to me for two hours; and at last, when my chin was so tired itcouldn’t hardly go any more, I had told them more about my family—Imean the Sawyer family—than ever happened to any six Sawyer families.And I explained all about how we blowed out a cylinder-head at themouth of White River, and it took us three days to fix it. Which wasall right, and worked first-rate; because _they_ didn’t know but whatit would take three days to fix it. If I’d ’a’ called it a bolthead itwould ’a’ done just as well.Now I was feeling pretty comfortable all down one side, and prettyuncomfortable all up the other. Being Tom Sawyer was easy andcomfortable, and it stayed easy and comfortable till by and by I heara steamboat coughing along down the river. Then I says to myself,s’pose Tom Sawyer comes down on that boat? And s’pose he steps inhere any minute, and sings out my name before I can throw him a winkto keep quiet?Well, I couldn’t _have_ it that way; it wouldn’t do at all. I must goup the road and waylay him. So I told the folks I reckoned I would goup to the town and fetch down my baggage. The old gentleman was forgoing along with me, but I said no, I could drive the horse myself,and I druther he wouldn’t take no trouble about me.CHAPTER XXXIIISo I started for town in the wagon, and when I was half-way I see awagon coming, and sure enough it was Tom Sawyer, and I stopped andwaited till he come along. I says “Hold on!” and it stopped alongside,and his mouth opened up like a trunk, and stayed so; and he swallowedtwo or three times like a person that’s got a dry throat, and thensays:“I hain’t ever done you no harm. You know that. So, then, what youwant to come back and ha’nt _me_ for?”I says:“I hain’t come back—I hain’t been _gone_.”When he heard my voice it righted him up some, but he warn’t quitesatisfied yet. He says:“Don’t you play nothing on me, because I wouldn’t on you. Honestinjun, you ain’t a ghost?”“Honest injun, I ain’t,” I says.“Well—I—I—well, that ought to settle it, of course; but I can’tsomehow seem to understand it no way. Looky here, warn’t you evermurdered _at all?_”“No. I warn’t ever murdered at all—I played it on them. You come inhere and feel of me if you don’t believe me.”So he done it; and it satisfied him; and he was that glad to see meagain he didn’t know what to do. And he wanted to know all about itright off, because it was a grand adventure, and mysterious, and so ithit him where he lived. But I said, leave it alone till by and by; andtold his driver to wait, and we drove off a little piece, and I toldhim the kind of a fix I was in, and what did he reckon we better do?He said, let him alone a minute, and don’t disturb him. So he thoughtand thought, and pretty soon he says:“It’s all right; I’ve got it. Take my trunk in your wagon, and let onit’s your’n; and you turn back and fool along slow, so as to get tothe house about the time you ought to; and I’ll go towards town apiece, and take a fresh start, and get there a quarter or a half anhour after you; and you needn’t let on to know me at first.”I says:“All right; but wait a minute. There’s one more thing—a thing that_nobody_ don’t know but me. And that is, there’s a nigger here thatI’m a-trying to steal out of slavery, and his name is _Jim_—old MissWatson’s Jim.”He says:“What! Why, Jim is—”He stopped and went to studying. I says:“_I_ know what you’ll say. You’ll say it’s dirty, low-down business;but what if it is? _I_’m low down; and I’m a-going to steal him, and Iwant you keep mum and not let on. Will you?”His eye lit up, and he says:“I’ll _help_ you steal him!”Well, I let go all holts then, like I was shot. It was the mostastonishing speech I ever heard—and I’m bound to say Tom Sawyer fellconsiderable in my estimation. Only I couldn’t believe it. Tom Sawyera _nigger-stealer!_“Oh, shucks!” I says; “you’re joking.”“I ain’t joking, either.”“Well, then,” I says, “joking or no joking, if you hear anything saidabout a runaway nigger, don’t forget to remember that _you_ don’t knownothing about him, and _I_ don’t know nothing about him.”Then he took the trunk and put it in my wagon, and he drove off hisway and I drove mine. But of course I forgot all about driving slow onaccounts of being glad and full of thinking; so I got home a heap tooquick for that length of a trip. The old gentleman was at the door,and he says:“Why, this is wonderful! Whoever would ’a’ thought it was in that mareto do it? I wish we’d ’a’ timed her. And she hain’t sweated ahair—not a hair. It’s wonderful. Why, I wouldn’t take a hundreddollars for that horse now—I wouldn’t, honest; and yet I’d ’a’ soldher for fifteen before, and thought ’twas all she was worth.”That’s all he said. He was the innocentest, best old soul I ever see.But it warn’t surprising; because he warn’t only just a farmer, he wasa preacher, too, and had a little one-horse log church down back ofthe plantation, which he built it himself at his own expense, for achurch and schoolhouse, and never charged nothing for his preaching,and it was worth it, too. There was plenty other farmer-preachers likethat, and done the same way, down South.In about half an hour Tom’s wagon drove up to the front stile, andAunt Sally she see it through the window, because it was only aboutfifty yards, and says:“Why, there’s somebody come! I wonder who ’tis? Why, I do believe it’sa stranger. Jimmy” (that’s one of the children), “run and tell Lize toput on another plate for dinner.”Everybody made a rush for the front door, because, of course, astranger don’t come _every_ year, and so he lays over theyaller-fever, for interest, when he does come. Tom was over the stileand starting for the house; the wagon was spinning up the road for thevillage, and we was all bunched in the front door. Tom had his storeclothes on, and an audience—and that was always nuts for Tom Sawyer.In them circumstances it warn’t no trouble to him to throw in anamount of style that was suitable. He warn’t a boy to meeky along upthat yard like a sheep; no, he come ca’m and important, like the ram.When he got a-front of us he lifts his hat ever so gracious anddainty, like it was the lid of a box that had butterflies asleep in itand he didn’t want to disturb them, and says:“Mr. Archibald Nichols, I presume?”“No, my boy,” says the old gentleman, “I’m sorry to say ’t your driverhas deceived you; Nichols’s place is down a matter of three mile more.Come in, come in.”Tom he took a look back over his shoulder, and says, “Too late—he’sout of sight.”“Yes, he’s gone, my son, and you must come in and eat your dinner withus; and then we’ll hitch up and take you down to Nichols’s.”“Oh, I _can’t_ make you so much trouble; I couldn’t think of it. I’llwalk—I don’t mind the distance.”“But we won’t _let_ you walk—it wouldn’t be Southern hospitality todo it. Come right in.”“Oh, _do_,” says Aunt Sally; “it ain’t a bit of trouble to us, not abit in the world. You must stay. It’s a long, dusty three mile, and we_can’t_ let you walk. And, besides, I’ve already told ’em to put onanother plate when I see you coming; so you mustn’t disappoint us.Come right in and make yourself at home.”So Tom he thanked them very hearty and handsome, and let himself bepersuaded, and come in; and when he was in he said he was a strangerfrom Hicksville, Ohio, and his name was William Thompson—and he madeanother bow.Well, he run on, and on, and on, making up stuff about Hicksville andeverybody in it he could invent, and I getting a little nervious, andwondering how this was going to help me out of my scrape; and at last,still talking along, he reached over and kissed Aunt Sally right onthe mouth, and then settled back again in his chair comfortable, andwas going on talking; but she jumped up and wiped it off with the backof her hand, and says:“You owdacious puppy!”He looked kind of hurt, and says:“I’m surprised at you, m’am.”“You’re s’rp—Why, what do you reckon _I_ am? I’ve a good notion totake and—Say, what do you mean by kissing me?”He looked kind of humble, and says:“I didn’t mean nothing, m’am. I didn’t mean no harm. I—I—thoughtyou’d like it.”“Why, you born fool!” She took up the spinning-stick, and it lookedlike it was all she could do to keep from giving him a crack with it.“What made you think I’d like it?”“Well, I don’t know. Only, they—they—told me you would.”“_They_ told you I would. Whoever told you’s _another_ lunatic. Inever heard the beat of it. Who’s _they?_”“Why, everybody. They all said so, m’am.”It was all she could do to hold in; and her eyes snapped, and herfingers worked like she wanted to scratch him; and she says:“Who’s ’everybody’? Out with their names, or ther’ll be an idiotshort.”He got up and looked distressed, and fumbled his hat, and says:“I’m sorry, and I warn’t expecting it. They told me to. They all toldme to. They all said, kiss her; and said she’d like it. They all saidit—every one of them. But I’m sorry, m’am, and I won’t do it nomore—I won’t, honest.”“You won’t, won’t you? Well, I sh’d _reckon_ you won’t!”“No’m, I’m honest about it; I won’t ever do it again—till you askme.”“Till I _ask_ you! Well, I never see the beat of it in my born days! Ilay you’ll be the Methusalem-numskull of creation before ever _I_ askyou—or the likes of you.”“Well,” he says, “it does surprise me so. I can’t make it out,somehow. They said you would, and I thought you would. But—” Hestopped and looked around slow, like he wished he could run across afriendly eye somewheres, and fetched up on the old gentleman’s, andsays, “Didn’t _you_ think she’d like me to kiss her, sir?”“Why, no; I—I—well, no, I b’lieve I didn’t.”Then he looks on around the same way to me, and says:“Tom, didn’t _you_ think Aunt Sally ’d open out her arms and say, ’SidSawyer—’”“My land!” she says, breaking in and jumping for him, “you impudentyoung rascal, to fool a body so—” and was going to hug him, but hefended her off, and says:“No, not till you’ve asked me first.”So she didn’t lose no time, but asked him; and hugged him and kissedhim over and over again, and then turned him over to the old man, andhe took what was left. And after they got a little quiet again shesays:“Why, dear me, I never see such a surprise. We warn’t looking for_you_ at all, but only Tom. Sis never wrote to me about anybody comingbut him.”“It’s because it warn’t _intended_ for any of us to come but Tom,” hesays; “but I begged and begged, and at the last minute she let mecome, too; so, coming down the river, me and Tom thought it would be afirst-rate surprise for him to come here to the house first, and forme to by and by tag along and drop in, and let on to be a stranger.But it was a mistake, Aunt Sally. This ain’t no healthy place for astranger to come.”“No—not impudent whelps, Sid. You ought to had your jaws boxed; Ihain’t been so put out since I don’t know when. But I don’t care, Idon’t mind the terms—I’d be willing to stand a thousand such jokes tohave you here. Well, to think of that performance! I don’t deny it, Iwas most putrified with astonishment when you give me that smack.”We had dinner out in that broad open passage betwixt the house and thekitchen; and there was things enough on that table for sevenfamilies—and all hot, too; none of your flabby, tough meat that’slaid in a cupboard in a damp cellar all night and tastes like a hunkof old cold cannibal in the morning. Uncle Silas he asked a prettylong blessing over it, but it was worth it; and it didn’t cool it abit, neither, the way I’ve seen them kind of interruptions do lots oftimes.There was a considerable good deal of talk all the afternoon, and meand Tom was on the lookout all the time; but it warn’t no use, theydidn’t happen to say nothing about any runaway nigger, and we wasafraid to try to work up to it. But at supper, at night, one of thelittle boys says:“Pa, mayn’t Tom and Sid and me go to the show?”“No,” says the old man, “I reckon there ain’t going to be any; and youcouldn’t go if there was; because the runaway nigger told Burton andme all about that scandalous show, and Burton said he would tell thepeople; so I reckon they’ve drove the owdacious loafers out of townbefore this time.”So there it was!—but _I_ couldn’t help it. Tom and me was to sleep inthe same room and bed; so, being tired, we bid good night and went upto bed right after supper, and clumb out of the window and down thelightning-rod, and shoved for the town; for I didn’t believe anybodywas going to give the king and the duke a hint, and so if I didn’thurry up and give them one they’d get into trouble sure.On the road Tom he told me all about how it was reckoned I wasmurdered, and how pap disappeared pretty soon, and didn’t come back nomore, and what a stir there was when Jim run away; and I told Tom allabout our “Royal Nonesuch” rapscallions, and as much of the raftvoyage as I had time to; and as we struck into the town and up throughthe middle of it—it was as much as half after eight then—here comesa raging rush of people with torches, and an awful whooping andyelling, and banging tin pans and blowing horns; and we jumped to oneside to let them go by; and as they went by I see they had the kingand the duke astraddle of a rail—that is, I knowed it _was_ the kingand the duke, though they was all over tar and feathers, and didn’tlook like nothing in the world that was human—just looked like acouple of monstrous big soldier-plumes. Well, it made me sick to seeit; and I was sorry for them poor pitiful rascals, it seemed like Icouldn’t ever feel any hardness against them any more in the world. Itwas a dreadful thing to see. Human beings _can_ be awful cruel to oneanother.We see we was too late—couldn’t do no good. We asked some stragglersabout it, and they said everybody went to the show looking veryinnocent; and laid low and kept dark till the poor old king was in themiddle of his cavortings on the stage; then somebody give a signal,and the house rose up and went for them.So we poked along back home, and I warn’t feeling so brash as I wasbefore, but kind of ornery, and humble, and to blame, somehow—though_I_ hadn’t done nothing. But that’s always the way; it don’t make nodifference whether you do right or wrong, a person’s conscience ain’tgot no sense, and just goes for him _anyway._ If I had a yaller dogthat didn’t know no more than a person’s conscience does I would pisonhim. It takes up more room than all the rest of a person’s insides,and yet ain’t no good, nohow. Tom Sawyer he says the same.CHAPTER XXXIVWe stopped talking, and got to thinking. By and by Tom says:“Looky here, Huck, what fools we are to not think of it before! I betI know where Jim is.”“No! Where?”“In that hut down by the ash-hopper. Why, looky here. When we was atdinner, didn’t you see a nigger man go in there with some vittles?”“Yes.”“What did you think the vittles was for?”“For a dog.”“So ’d I. Well, it wasn’t for a dog.”“Why?”“Because part of it was watermelon.”“So it was—I noticed it. Well, it does beat all that I never thoughtabout a dog not eating watermelon. It shows how a body can see anddon’t see at the same time.”“Well, the nigger unlocked the padlock when he went in, and he lockedit again when he came out. He fetched uncle a key about the time wegot up from table—same key, I bet. Watermelon shows man, lock showsprisoner; and it ain’t likely there’s two prisoners on such a littleplantation, and where the people’s all so kind and good. Jim’s theprisoner. All right—I’m glad we found it out detective fashion; Iwouldn’t give shucks for any other way. Now you work your mind, andstudy out a plan to steal Jim, and I will study out one, too; andwe’ll take the one we like the best.”What a head for just a boy to have! If I had Tom Sawyer’s head Iwouldn’t trade it off to be a duke, nor mate of a steamboat, nor clownin a circus, nor nothing I can think of. I went to thinking out aplan, but only just to be doing something; I knowed very well wherethe right plan was going to come from. Pretty soon Tom says:“Ready?”“Yes,” I says.“All right—bring it out.”“My plan is this,” I says. “We can easy find out if it’s Jim in there.Then get up my canoe to-morrow night, and fetch my raft over from theisland. Then the first dark night that comes steal the key out of theold man’s britches after he goes to bed, and shove off down the riveron the raft with Jim, hiding daytimes and running nights, the way meand Jim used to do before. Wouldn’t that plan work?”“_Work?_ Why, cert’nly it would work, like rats a-fighting. But it’stoo blame’ simple; there ain’t nothing _to_ it. What’s the good of aplan that ain’t no more trouble than that? It’s as mild as goose-milk.Why, Huck, it wouldn’t make no more talk than breaking into a soapfactory.”I never said nothing, because I warn’t expecting nothing different;but I knowed mighty well that whenever he got _his_ plan ready itwouldn’t have none of them objections to it.And it didn’t. He told me what it was, and I see in a minute it wasworth fifteen of mine for style, and would make Jim just as free a manas mine would, and maybe get us all killed besides. So I wassatisfied, and said we would waltz in on it. I needn’t tell what itwas here, because I knowed it wouldn’t stay the way it was. I knowedhe would be changing it around every which way as we went along, andheaving in new bullinesses wherever he got a chance. And that is whathe done.Well, one thing was dead sure, and that was that Tom Sawyer was inearnest, and was actuly going to help steal that nigger out ofslavery. That was the thing that was too many for me. Here was a boythat was respectable and well brung up; and had a character to lose;and folks at home that had characters; and he was bright and notleather-headed; and knowing and not ignorant; and not mean, but kind;and yet here he was, without any more pride, or rightness, or feeling,than to stoop to this business, and make himself a shame, and hisfamily a shame, before everybody. I _couldn’t_ understand it no way atall. It was outrageous, and I knowed I ought to just up and tell himso; and so be his true friend, and let him quit the thing right wherehe was and save himself. And I _did_ start to tell him; but he shut meup, and says:“Don’t you reckon I know what I’m about? Don’t I generly know whatI’m about?”“Yes.”“Didn’t I _say_ I was going to help steal the nigger?”“Yes.”“_Well_, then.”That’s all he said, and that’s all I said. It warn’t no use to say anymore; because when he said he’d do a thing, he always done it. But _I_couldn’t make out how he was willing to go into this thing; so I justlet it go, and never bothered no more about it. If he was bound tohave it so, _I_ couldn’t help it.When we got home the house was all dark and still; so we went on downto the hut by the ash-hopper for to examine it. We went through theyard so as to see what the hounds would do. They knowed us, and didn’tmake no more noise than country dogs is always doing when anythingcomes by in the night. When we got to the cabin we took a look at thefront and the two sides; and on the side I warn’t acquaintedwith—which was the north side—we found a square window-hole, uptolerable high, with just one stout board nailed across it. I says:“Here’s the ticket. This hole’s big enough for Jim to get through ifwe wrench off the board.”Tom says:“It’s as simple as tit-tat-toe, three-in-a-row, and as easy as playinghooky. I should _hope_ we can find a way that’s a little morecomplicated than _that_, Huck Finn.”“Well, then,” I says, “how’ll it do to saw him out, the way I donebefore I was murdered that time?”“That’s more _like_,” he says. “It’s real mysterious, and troublesome,and good,” he says; “but I bet we can find a way that’s twice as long.There ain’t no hurry; le’s keep on looking around.”Betwixt the hut and the fence, on the back side, was a lean-to thatjoined the hut at the eaves, and was made out of plank. It was as longas the hut, but narrow—only about six foot wide. The door to it wasat the south end, and was padlocked. Tom he went to the soap-kettleand searched around, and fetched back the iron thing they lift the lidwith; so he took it and prized out one of the staples. The chain felldown, and we opened the door and went in, and shut it, and struck amatch, and see the shed was only built against a cabin and hadn’t noconnection with it; and there warn’t no floor to the shed, nor nothingin it but some old rusty played-out hoes and spades and picks and acrippled plow. The match went out, and so did we, and shoved in thestaple again, and the door was locked as good as ever. Tom was joyful.He says:“Now we’re all right. We’ll _dig_ him out. It ’ll take about a week!”Then we started for the house, and I went in the back door—you onlyhave to pull a buckskin latch-string, they don’t fasten the doors—butthat warn’t romantical enough for Tom Sawyer; no way would do him buthe must climb up the lightning-rod. But after he got up half-way aboutthree times, and missed fire and fell every time, and the last timemost busted his brains out, he thought he’d got to give it up; butafter he was rested he allowed he would give her one more turn forluck, and this time he made the trip.In the morning we was up at break of day, and down to the niggercabins to pet the dogs and make friends with the nigger that fedJim—if it _was_ Jim that was being fed. The niggers was just gettingthrough breakfast and starting for the fields; and Jim’s nigger waspiling up a tin pan with bread and meat and things; and whilst theothers was leaving, the key come from the house.This nigger had a good-natured, chuckle-headed face, and his wool wasall tied up in little bunches with thread. That was to keep witchesoff. He said the witches was pestering him awful these nights, andmaking him see all kinds of strange things, and hear all kinds ofstrange words and noises, and he didn’t believe he was ever witched solong before in his life. He got so worked up, and got to running on soabout his troubles, he forgot all about what he’d been a-going to do.So Tom says:“What’s the vittles for? Going to feed the dogs?”The nigger kind of smiled around graduly over his face, like when youheave a brickbat in a mud-puddle, and he says:“Yes, Mars Sid, _a_ dog. Cur’us dog, too. Does you want to go en lookat ’im?”“Yes.”I hunched Tom, and whispers:“You going, right here in the daybreak? _That_ warn’t the plan.”“No, it warn’t; but it’s the plan _now._”So, drat him, we went along, but I didn’t like it much. When we got inwe couldn’t hardly see anything, it was so dark; but Jim was there,sure enough, and could see us; and he sings out:“Why, _Huck!_ En good _lan’!_ ain’ dat Misto Tom?”I just knowed how it would be; I just expected it. _I_ didn’t knownothing to do; and if I had I couldn’t ’a’ done it, because thatnigger busted in and says:“Why, de gracious sakes! do he know you genlmen?”We could see pretty well now. Tom he looked at the nigger, steady andkind of wondering, and says:“Does _who_ know us?”“Why, dis-yer runaway nigger.”“I don’t reckon he does; but what put that into your head?”“What _put_ it dar? Didn’ he jis’ dis minute sing out like he knowedyou?”Tom says, in a puzzled-up kind of way:“Well, that’s mighty curious. _Who_ sung out? _When_ did he sing out?_What_ did he sing out?” And turns to me, perfectly ca’m, and says,“Did _you_ hear anybody sing out?”Of course there warn’t nothing to be said but the one thing; so Isays:“No; _I_ ain’t heard nobody say nothing.”Then he turns to Jim, and looks him over like he never see him before,and says:“Did you sing out?”“No, sah,” says Jim; “_I_ hain’t said nothing, sah.”“Not a word?”“No, sah, I hain’t said a word.”“Did you ever see us before?”“No, sah; not as _I_ knows on.”So Tom turns to the nigger, which was looking wild and distressed, andsays, kind of severe:“What do you reckon’s the matter with you, anyway? What made you thinksomebody sung out?”“Oh, it’s de dad-blame’ witches, sah, en I wisht I was dead, I do.Dey’s awluz at it, sah, en dey do mos’ kill me, dey sk’yers me so.Please to don’t tell nobody ’bout it sah, er ole Mars Silas he’llscole me; ’kase he say dey _ain’t_ no witches. I jis’ wish to goodnesshe was heah now—_den_ what would he say! I jis’ bet he couldn’ fineno way to git aroun’ it _dis_ time. But it’s awluz jis’ so; peopledat’s _sot_, stays sot; dey won’t look into noth’n’ en fine it out f’rdeyselves, en when _you_ fine it out en tell um ’bout it, dey doan’b’lieve you.”Tom give him a dime, and said we wouldn’t tell nobody; and told him tobuy some more thread to tie up his wool with; and then looks at Jim,and says:“I wonder if Uncle Silas is going to hang this nigger. If I was tocatch a nigger that was ungrateful enough to run away, _I_ wouldn’t givehim up, I’d hang him.” And whilst the nigger stepped to the door tolook at the dime and bite it to see if it was good, he whispers to Jimand says:“Don’t ever let on to know us. And if you hear any digging going onnights, it’s us; we’re going to set you free.”Jim only had time to grab us by the hand and squeeze it; then thenigger come back, and we said we’d come again some time if the niggerwanted us to; and he said he would, more particular if it was dark,because the witches went for him mostly in the dark, and it was goodto have folks around then.CHAPTER XXXVIt would be most an hour yet till breakfast, so we left and struckdown into the woods; because Tom said we got to have _some_ light tosee how to dig by, and a lantern makes too much, and might get us intotrouble; what we must have was a lot of them rotten chunks that’scalled fox-fire, and just makes a soft kind of a glow when you laythem in a dark place. We fetched an armful and hid it in the weeds,and set down to rest, and Tom says, kind of dissatisfied:“Blame it, this whole thing is just as easy and awkward as it can be.And so it makes it so rotten difficult to get up a difficult plan.There ain’t no watchman to be drugged—now there _ought_ to be awatchman. There ain’t even a dog to give a sleeping-mixture to. Andthere’s Jim chained by one leg, with a ten-foot chain, to the leg ofhis bed: why, all you got to do is to lift up the bedstead and slipoff the chain. And Uncle Silas he trusts everybody; sends the key tothe punkin-headed nigger, and don’t send nobody to watch the nigger.Jim could ’a’ got out of that window-hole before this, only therewouldn’t be no use trying to travel with a ten-foot chain on his leg.Why, drat it, Huck, it’s the stupidest arrangement I ever see. You gotto invent _all_ the difficulties. Well, we can’t help it; we got to dothe best we can with the materials we’ve got. Anyhow, there’s onething—there’s more honor in getting him out through a lot ofdifficulties and dangers, where there warn’t one of them furnished toyou by the people who it was their duty to furnish them, and you hadto contrive them all out of your own head. Now look at just that onething of the lantern. When you come down to the cold facts, we simplygot to _let on_ that a lantern’s resky. Why, we could work with atorchlight procession if we wanted to, _I_ believe. Now, whilst Ithink of it, we got to hunt up something to make a saw out of thefirst chance we get.”“What do we want of a saw?”“What do we _want_ of a saw? Hain’t we got to saw the leg of Jim’s bedoff, so as to get the chain loose?”“Why, you just said a body could lift up the bedstead and slip thechain off.”“Well, if that ain’t just like you, Huck Finn. You _can_ get up theinfant-schooliest ways of going at a thing. Why, hain’t you ever readany books at all?—Baron Trenck, nor Casanova, nor BenvenutoChelleeny, nor Henri IV., nor none of them heroes? Who ever heard ofgetting a prisoner loose in such an old-maidy way as that? No; theway all the best authorities does is to saw the bed-leg in two, andleave it just so, and swallow the sawdust, so it can’t be found, andput some dirt and grease around the sawed place so the very keenestseneskal can’t see no sign of its being sawed, and thinks the bed-legis perfectly sound. Then, the night you’re ready, fetch the leg akick, down she goes; slip off your chain, and there you are. Nothingto do but hitch your rope ladder to the battlements, shin down it,break your leg in the moat—because a rope ladder is nineteen foot tooshort, you know—and there’s your horses and your trusty vassles, andthey scoop you up and fling you across a saddle, and away you go toyour native Langudoc, or Navarre, or wherever it is. It’s gaudy, Huck.I wish there was a moat to this cabin. If we get time, the night ofthe escape, we’ll dig one.”I says:“What do we want of a moat when we’re going to snake him out fromunder the cabin?”But he never heard me. He had forgot me and everything else. He hadhis chin in his hand, thinking. Pretty soon he sighs and shakes hishead; then sighs again, and says:“No, it wouldn’t do—there ain’t necessity enough for it.”“For what?” I says.“Why, to saw Jim’s leg off,” he says.“Good land!” I says; “why, there ain’t _no_ necessity for it. And whatwould you want to saw his leg off for, anyway?”“Well, some of the best authorities has done it. They couldn’t get thechain off, so they just cut their hand off and shoved. And a leg wouldbe better still. But we got to let that go. There ain’t necessityenough in this case; and, besides, Jim’s a nigger, and wouldn’tunderstand the reasons for it, and how it’s the custom in Europe; sowe’ll let it go. But there’s one thing—he can have a rope ladder; wecan tear up our sheets and make him a rope ladder easy enough. And wecan send it to him in a pie; it’s mostly done that way. And I’ve etworse pies.”“Why, Tom Sawyer, how you talk,” I says; “Jim ain’t got no use for arope ladder.”“He _has_ got use for it. How _you_ talk, you better say; you don’tknow nothing about it. He’s _got_ to have a rope ladder; they all do.”“What in the nation can he _do_ with it?”“_Do_ with it? He can hide it in his bed, can’t he? That’s what theyall do; and _he’s_ got to, too. Huck, you don’t ever seem to want todo anything that’s regular; you want to be starting something freshall the time. S’pose he _don’t_ do nothing with it? ain’t it there inhis bed, for a clue, after he’s gone? and don’t you reckon they’llwant clues? Of course they will. And you wouldn’t leave them any? Thatwould be a _pretty_ howdy-do, _wouldn’t_ it! I never heard of such athing.”“Well,” I says, “if it’s in the regulations, and he’s got to have it,all right, let him have it; because I don’t wish to go back on noregulations; but there’s one thing, Tom Sawyer—if we go to tearing upour sheets to make Jim a rope ladder, we’re going to get into troublewith Aunt Sally, just as sure as you’re born. Now, the way I look atit, a hickry-bark ladder don’t cost nothing, and don’t waste nothing,and is just as good to load up a pie with, and hide in a straw tick,as any rag ladder you can start; and as for Jim, he ain’t had noexperience, and so _he_ don’t care what kind of a—”“Oh, shucks, Huck Finn, if I was as ignorant as you I’d keepstill—that’s what _I’d_ do. Who ever heard of a state prisoner escapingby a hickry-bark ladder? Why, it’s perfectly ridiculous.”“Well, all right, Tom, fix it your own way; but if you’ll take myadvice, you’ll let me borrow a sheet off of the clothes-line.”He said that would do. And that gave him another idea, and he says:“Borrow a shirt, too.”“What do we want of a shirt, Tom?”“Want it for Jim to keep a journal on.”“Journal your granny—_Jim_ can’t write.”“S’pose he _can’t_ write—he can make marks on the shirt, can’t he, ifwe make him a pen out of an old pewter spoon or a piece of an old ironbarrel-hoop?”“Why, Tom, we can pull a feather out of a goose and make him a betterone; and quicker, too.”“_Prisoners_ don’t have geese running around the donjon-keep to pullpens out of, you muggins. They _always_ make their pens out of thehardest, toughest, troublesomest piece of old brass candlestick orsomething like that they can get their hands on; and it takes themweeks and weeks and months and months to file it out, too, becausethey’ve got to do it by rubbing it on the wall. _They_ wouldn’t use agoose-quill if they had it. It ain’t regular.”“Well, then, what ’ll we make him the ink out of?”“Many makes it out of iron-rust and tears; but that’s the common sortand women; the best authorities uses their own blood. Jim can do that;and when he wants to send any little common ordinary mysteriousmessage to let the world know where he’s captivated, he can write iton the bottom of a tin plate with a fork and throw it out of thewindow. The Iron Mask always done that, and it’s a blame’ good way,too.”“Jim ain’t got no tin plates. They feed him in a pan.”“That ain’t nothing; we can get him some.”“Can’t nobody _read_ his plates.”“That ain’t got anything to _do_ with it, Huck Finn. All _he’s_ got todo is to write on the plate and throw it out. You don’t _have_ to beable to read it. Why, half the time you can’t read anything a prisonerwrites on a tin plate, or anywhere else.”“Well, then, what’s the sense in wasting the plates?”“Why, blame it all, it ain’t the _prisoner’s_ plates.”“But it’s _somebody’s_ plates, ain’t it?”“Well, spos’n it is? What does the _prisoner_ care whose—”He broke off there, because we heard the breakfast-horn blowing. So wecleared out for the house.Along during the morning I borrowed a sheet and a white shirt off ofthe clothes-line; and I found an old sack and put them in it, and wewent down and got the fox-fire, and put that in too. I called itborrowing, because that was what pap always called it; but Tom said itwarn’t borrowing, it was stealing. He said we was representingprisoners; and prisoners don’t care how they get a thing so they getit, and nobody don’t blame them for it, either. It ain’t no crime in aprisoner to steal the thing he needs to get away with, Tom said; it’shis right; and so, as long as we was representing a prisoner, we had aperfect right to steal anything on this place we had the least use forto get ourselves out of prison with. He said if we warn’t prisoners itwould be a very different thing, and nobody but a mean, ornery personwould steal when he warn’t a prisoner. So we allowed we would stealeverything there was that come handy. And yet he made a mighty fuss,one day, after that, when I stole a watermelon out of the nigger patchand eat it; and he made me go and give the niggers a dime withouttelling them what it was for. Tom said that what he meant was, wecould steal anything we _needed._ Well, I says, I needed thewatermelon. But he said I didn’t need it to get out of prison with;there’s where the difference was. He said if I’d ’a’ wanted it to hidea knife in, and smuggle it to Jim to kill the seneskal with, it would’a’ been all right. So I let it go at that, though I couldn’t see noadvantage in my representing a prisoner if I got to set down and chawover a lot of gold-leaf distinctions like that every time I see achance to hog a watermelon.Well, as I was saying, we waited that morning till everybody wassettled down to business, and nobody in sight around the yard; thenTom he carried the sack into the lean-to whilst I stood off a piece tokeep watch. By and by he come out, and we went and set down on thewoodpile to talk. He says:“Everything’s all right now except tools; and that’s easy fixed.”“Tools?” I says.“Yes.”“Tools for what?”“Why, to dig with. We ain’t a-going to _gnaw_ him out, are we?”“Ain’t them old crippled picks and things in there good enough to diga nigger out with?” I says.He turns on me, looking pitying enough to make a body cry, and says:“Huck Finn, did you _ever_ hear of a prisoner having picks and shovels,and all the modern conveniences in his wardrobe to dig himself outwith? Now I want to ask you—if you got any reasonableness in you atall—what kind of a show would _that_ give him to be a hero? Why, theymight as well lend him the key and done with it. Picks and shovels—why,they wouldn’t furnish ’em to a king.”“Well, then,” I says, “if we don’t want the picks and shovels, what dowe want?”“A couple of case-knives.”“To dig the foundations out from under that cabin with?”“Yes.”“Confound it, it’s foolish, Tom.”“It don’t make no difference how foolish it is, it’s the _right_way—and it’s the regular way. And there ain’t no _other_ way, thatever _I_ heard of, and I’ve read all the books that gives anyinformation about these things. They always dig out with acase-knife—and not through dirt, mind you; generly it’s through solidrock. And it takes them weeks and weeks and weeks, and for ever andever. Why, look at one of them prisoners in the bottom dungeon of theCastle Deef, in the harbor of Marseilles, that dug himself out thatway; how long was _he_ at it, you reckon?”“I don’t know.”“Well, guess.”“I don’t know. A month and a half.”“_Thirty-seven year_—and he come out in China. _That’s_ the kind. Iwish the bottom of _this_ fortress was solid rock.”“_Jim_ don’t know nobody in China.”“What’s _that_ got to do with it? Neither did that other fellow. Butyou’re always a-wandering off on a side issue. Why can’t you stick tothe main point?”“All right—_I_ don’t care where he comes out, so he _comes_ out; andJim don’t, either, I reckon. But there’s one thing, anyway—Jim’s tooold to be dug out with a case-knife. He won’t last.”“Yes he will _last_, too. You don’t reckon it’s going to takethirty-seven years to dig out through a _dirt_ foundation, do you?”“How long will it take, Tom?”“Well, we can’t resk being as long as we ought to, because it mayn’ttake very long for Uncle Silas to hear from down there by New Orleans.He’ll hear Jim ain’t from there. Then his next move will be toadvertise Jim, or something like that. So we can’t resk being as longdigging him out as we ought to. By rights I reckon we ought to be acouple of years; but we can’t. Things being so uncertain, what Irecommend is this: that we really dig right in, as quick as we can;and after that, we can _let on_, to ourselves, that we was at itthirty-seven years. Then we can snatch him out and rush him away thefirst time there’s an alarm. Yes, I reckon that ’ll be the best way.”“Now, there’s _sense_ in that,” I says. “Letting on don’t costnothing; letting on ain’t no trouble; and if it’s any object, I don’tmind letting on we was at it a hundred and fifty year. It wouldn’tstrain me none, after I got my hand in. So I’ll mosey along now, andsmouch a couple of case-knives.”“Smouch three,” he says; “we want one to make a saw out of.”“Tom, if it ain’t unregular and irreligious to sejest it,” I says,“there’s an old rusty saw-blade around yonder sticking under theweather-boarding behind the smokehouse.”He looked kind of weary and discouraged-like, and says:“It ain’t no use to try to learn you nothing, Huck. Run along andsmouch the knives—three of them.” So I done it.CHAPTER XXXVIAs soon as we reckoned everybody was asleep that night we went downthe lightning-rod, and shut ourselves up in the lean-to, and got outour pile of fox-fire, and went to work. We cleared everything out ofthe way, about four or five foot along the middle of the bottom log.Tom said we was right behind Jim’s bed now, and we’d dig in under it,and when we got through there couldn’t nobody in the cabin ever knowthere was any hole there, because Jim’s counterpin hung down most tothe ground, and you’d have to raise it up and look under to see thehole. So we dug and dug with the case-knives till most midnight; andthen we was dog-tired, and our hands was blistered, and yet youcouldn’t see we’d done anything hardly. At last I says:“This ain’t no thirty-seven-year job; this is a thirty-eight-year job,Tom Sawyer.”He never said nothing. But he sighed, and pretty soon he stoppeddigging, and then for a good little while I knowed that he wasthinking. Then he says:“It ain’t no use, Huck, it ain’t a-going to work. If we was prisonersit would, because then we’d have as many years as we wanted, and nohurry; and we wouldn’t get but a few minutes to dig, every day, whilethey was changing watches, and so our hands wouldn’t get blistered,and we could keep it up right along, year in and year out, and do itright, and the way it ought to be done. But _we_ can’t fool along; wegot to rush; we ain’t got no time to spare. If we was to put inanother night this way we’d have to knock off for a week to let ourhands get well—couldn’t touch a case-knife with them sooner.”“Well, then, what we going to do, Tom?”“I’ll tell you. It ain’t right, and it ain’t moral, and I wouldn’tlike it to get out; but there ain’t only just the one way: we got todig him out with the picks, and _let on_ it’s case-knives.”“_Now_ you’re _talking!_” I says; “your head gets leveler and levelerall the time, Tom Sawyer,” I says. “Picks is the thing, moral or nomoral; and as for me, I don’t care shucks for the morality of it,nohow. When I start in to steal a nigger, or a watermelon, or aSunday-school book, I ain’t no ways particular how it’s done so it’sdone. What I want is my nigger; or what I want is my watermelon; orwhat I want is my Sunday-school book; and if a pick’s the handiestthing, that’s the thing I’m a-going to dig that nigger or thatwatermelon or that Sunday-school book out with; and I don’t give adead rat what the authorities thinks about it nuther.”“Well,” he says, “there’s excuse for picks and letting on in a caselike this; if it warn’t so, I wouldn’t approve of it, nor I wouldn’tstand by and see the rules broke—because right is right, and wrong iswrong, and a body ain’t got no business doing wrong when he ain’tignorant and knows better. It might answer for _you_ to dig Jim outwith a pick, _without_ any letting on, because you don’t know nobetter; but it wouldn’t for me, because I do know better. Gimme acase-knife.”He had his own by him, but I handed him mine. He flung it down, andsays:“Gimme a _case-knife._”I didn’t know just what to do—but then I thought. I scratched aroundamongst the old tools, and got a pickax and give it to him, and hetook it and went to work, and never said a word.He was always just that particular. Full of principle.So then I got a shovel, and then we picked and shoveled, turn about,and made the fur fly. We stuck to it about a half an hour, which wasas long as we could stand up; but we had a good deal of a hole to showfor it. When I got up-stairs I looked out at the window and see Tomdoing his level best with the lightning-rod, but he couldn’t come it,his hands was so sore. At last he says:“It ain’t no use, it can’t be done. What you reckon I better do? Can’tyou think of no way?”“Yes,” I says, “but I reckon it ain’t regular. Come up the stairs, andlet on it’s a lightning-rod.”So he done it.Next day Tom stole a pewter spoon and a brass candlestick in thehouse, for to make some pens for Jim out of, and six tallow candles;and I hung around the nigger cabins and laid for a chance, and stolethree tin plates. Tom says it wasn’t enough; but I said nobodywouldn’t ever see the plates that Jim throwed out, because they’d fallin the dog-fennel and jimpson weeds under the window-hole—then wecould tote them back and he could use them over again. So Tom wassatisfied. Then he says:“Now, the thing to study out is, how to get the things to Jim.”“Take them in through the hole,” I says, “when we get it done.”He only just looked scornful, and said something about nobody everheard of such an idiotic idea, and then he went to studying. By and byhe said he had ciphered out two or three ways, but there warn’t noneed to decide on any of them yet. Said we’d got to post Jim first.That night we went down the lightning-rod a little after ten, and tookone of the candles along, and listened under the window-hole, andheard Jim snoring; so we pitched it in, and it didn’t wake him. Thenwe whirled in with the pick and shovel, and in about two hours and ahalf the job was done. We crept in under Jim’s bed and into the cabin,and pawed around and found the candle and lit it, and stood over Jimawhile, and found him looking hearty and healthy, and then we woke himup gentle and gradual. He was so glad to see us he most cried; andcalled us honey, and all the pet names he could think of; and was forhaving us hunt up a cold-chisel to cut the chain off of his leg withright away, and clearing out without losing any time. But Tom heshowed him how unregular it would be, and set down and told him allabout our plans, and how we could alter them in a minute any timethere was an alarm; and not to be the least afraid, because we wouldsee he got away, _sure_. So Jim he said it was all right, and we setthere and talked over old times awhile, and then Tom asked a lot ofquestions, and when Jim told him Uncle Silas come in every day or twoto pray with him, and Aunt Sally come in to see if he was comfortableand had plenty to eat, and both of them was kind as they could be, Tomsays:“_Now_ I know how to fix it. We’ll send you some things by them.”I said, “Don’t do nothing of the kind; it’s one of the most jackassideas I ever struck”; but he never paid no attention to me; went righton. It was his way when he’d got his plans set.So he told Jim how we’d have to smuggle in the rope-ladder pie andother large things by Nat, the nigger that fed him, and he must be onthe lookout, and not be surprised, and not let Nat see him open them;and we would put small things in uncle’s coat pockets and he muststeal them out; and we would tie things to aunt’s apron-strings or putthem in her apron pocket, if we got a chance; and told him what theywould be and what they was for. And told him how to keep a journal onthe shirt with his blood, and all that. He told him everything. Jim hecouldn’t see no sense in the most of it, but he allowed we was whitefolks and knowed better than him; so he was satisfied, and said hewould do it all just as Tom said.Jim had plenty corn-cob pipes and tobacco; so we had a right down goodsociable time; then we crawled out through the hole, and so home tobed, with hands that looked like they’d been chawed. Tom was in highspirits. He said it was the best fun he ever had in his life, and themost intellectural; and said if he only could see his way to it wewould keep it up all the rest of our lives and leave Jim to ourchildren to get out; for he believed Jim would come to like it betterand better the more he got used to it. He said that in that way itcould be strung out to as much as eighty year, and would be the besttime on record. And he said it would make us all celebrated that had ahand in it.In the morning we went out to the woodpile and chopped up the brasscandlestick into handy sizes, and Tom put them and the pewter spoon inhis pocket. Then we went to the nigger cabins, and while I got Nat’snotice off, Tom shoved a piece of candlestick into the middle of acorn-pone that was in Jim’s pan, and we went along with Nat to see howit would work, and it just worked noble; when Jim bit into it it mostmashed all his teeth out; and there warn’t ever anything could ’a’worked better. Tom said so himself. Jim he never let on but what itwas only just a piece of rock or something like that that’s alwaysgetting into bread, you know; but after that he never bit into nothingbut what he jabbed his fork into it in three or four places first.And whilst we was a-standing there in the dimmish light, here comes acouple of the hounds bulging in from under Jim’s bed; and they kept onpiling in till there was eleven of them, and there warn’t hardly roomin there to get your breath. By jings, we forgot to fasten thatlean-to door! The nigger Nat he only just hollered “Witches” once, andkeeled over onto the floor amongst the dogs, and begun to groan likehe was dying. Tom jerked the door open and flung out a slab of Jim’smeat, and the dogs went for it, and in two seconds he was out himselfand back again and shut the door, and I knowed he’d fixed the otherdoor too. Then he went to work on the nigger, coaxing him and pettinghim, and asking him if he’d been imagining he saw something again. Heraised up, and blinked his eyes around, and says:“Mars Sid, you’ll say I’s a fool, but if I didn’t b’lieve I see most amillion dogs, er devils, er some’n, I wisht I may die right heah indese tracks. I did, mos’ sholy. Mars Sid, I _felt_ um—I _felt_ um,sah; dey was all over me. Dad fetch it, I jis’ wisht I could git myhan’s on one er dem witches jis’ wunst—on’y jis’ wunst—it’s all _I_’dast. But mos’ly I wisht dey’d lemme ’lone, I does.”Tom says:“Well, I tell you what _I_ think. What makes them come here just atthis runaway nigger’s breakfast-time? It’s because they’re hungry;that’s the reason. You make them a witch pie; that’s the thing for_you_ to do.”“But my lan’, Mars Sid, how’s I gwyne to make ’m a witch pie? I doan’know how to make it. I hain’t ever hearn er sich a thing b’fo’.”“Well, then, I’ll have to make it myself.”“Will you do it, honey?—will you? I’ll wusshup de groun’ und’ yo’foot, I will!”[Illustration: TOM ADVISES A WITCH PIE]“All right, I’ll do it, seeing it’s you, and you’ve been good to usand showed us the runaway nigger. But you got to be mighty careful.When we come around, you turn your back; and then whatever we’ve putin the pan, don’t you let on you see it at all. And don’t you lookwhen Jim unloads the pan—something might happen, I don’t know what.And above all, don’t you _handle_ the witch-things.”“_Hannel_ ’m, Mars Sid? What _is_ you a-talkin’ ’bout? I wouldn’ layde weight er my finger on um, not f’r ten hund’d thous’n billiondollars, I wouldn’t.”CHAPTER XXXVII_That_ was all fixed. So then we went away and went to therubbage-pile in the back yard, where they keep the old boots, andrags, and pieces of bottles, and wore-out tin things, and all suchtruck, and scratched around and found an old tin washpan, and stoppedup the holes as well as we could, to bake the pie in, and took it downcellar and stole it full of flour and started for breakfast, and founda couple of shingle-nails that Tom said would be handy for a prisonerto scrabble his name and sorrows on the dungeon walls with, anddropped one of them in Aunt Sally’s apron pocket which was hanging ona chair, and t’other we stuck in the band of Uncle Silas’s hat, whichwas on the bureau, because we heard the children say their pa and mawas going to the runaway nigger’s house this morning, and then went tobreakfast, and Tom dropped the pewter spoon in Uncle Silas’s coatpocket, and Aunt Sally wasn’t come yet, so we had to wait a littlewhile.And when she come she was hot and red and cross, and couldn’t hardlywait for the blessing; and then she went to sluicing out coffee withone hand and cracking the handiest child’s head with her thimble withthe other, and says:“I’ve hunted high and I’ve hunted low, and it does beat all what _has_become of your other shirt.”My heart fell down amongst my lungs and livers and things, and a hardpiece of corn-crust started down my throat after it and got met on theroad with a cough, and was shot across the table, and took one of thechildren in the eye and curled him up like a fishing-worm, and let acry out of him the size of a war-whoop, and Tom he turned kinder bluearound the gills, and it all amounted to a considerable state ofthings for about a quarter of a minute or as much as that, and I would’a’ sold out for half price if there was a bidder. But after that wewas all right again—it was the sudden surprise of it that knocked usso kind of cold. Uncle Silas he says:“It’s most uncommon curious, I can’t understand it. I know perfectlywell I took it _off_, because—”“Because you hain’t got but one _on_. Just _listen_ at the man! I knowyou took it off, and know it by a better way than your wool-getheringmemory, too, because it was on the clo’s-line yesterday—I see itthere myself. But it’s gone, that’s the long and the short of it, andyou’ll just have to change to a red flann’l one till I can get time tomake a new one. And it ’ll be the third I’ve made in two years. Itjust keeps a body on the jump to keep you in shirts; and whatever youdo manage to _do_ with ’m all is more’n I can make out. A body’d thinkyou _would_ learn to take some sort of care of ’em at your time oflife.”“I know it, Sally, and I do try all I can. But it oughtn’t to bealtogether my fault, because, you know, I don’t see them nor havenothing to do with them except when they’re on me; and I don’t believeI’ve ever lost one of them _off_ of me.”“Well, it ain’t _your_ fault if you haven’t, Silas; you’d ’a’ done itif you could, I reckon. And the shirt ain’t all that’s gone, nuther.Ther’s a spoon gone; and _that_ ain’t all. There was ten, and nowther’s only nine. The calf got the shirt, I reckon, but the calf nevertook the spoon, _that’s_ certain.”“Why, what else is gone, Sally?”“Ther’s six _candles_ gone—that’s what. The rats could ’a’ got thecandles, and I reckon they did; I wonder they don’t walk off with thewhole place, the way you’re always going to stop their holes and don’tdo it; and if they warn’t fools they’d sleep in your hair,Silas—_you’d_ never find it out; but you can’t lay the _spoon_ on therats, and that I _know_.”“Well, Sally, I’m in fault, and I acknowledge it; I’ve been remiss;but I won’t let to-morrow go by without stopping up them holes.”“Oh, I wouldn’t hurry; next year ’ll do. Matilda Angelina Araminta_Phelps!_”Whack comes the thimble, and the child snatches her claws out of thesugar-bowl without fooling around any. Just then the nigger womansteps onto the passage, and says:“Missus, dey’s a sheet gone.”“A _sheet_ gone! Well, for the land’s sake!”“I’ll stop up them holes to-day,” says Uncle Silas, looking sorrowful.“Oh, _do_ shet up!—s’pose the rats took the _sheet?_ _Where’s_ itgone, Lize?”“Clah to goodness I hain’t no notion, Miss’ Sally. She wuz on declo’s-line yistiddy, but she done gone: she ain’ dah no mo’ now.”“I reckon the world _is_ coming to an end. I _never_ see the beat ofit in all my born days. A shirt, and a sheet, and a spoon, and sixcan—”“Missus,” comes a young yaller wench, “dey’s a brass cannelstickmiss’n.”“Cler out from here, you hussy, er I’ll take a skillet to ye!”Well, she was just a-biling. I begun to lay for a chance; I reckoned Iwould sneak out and go for the woods till the weather moderated. Shekept a-raging right along, running her insurrection all by herself,and everybody else mighty meek and quiet; and at last Uncle Silas,looking kind of foolish, fishes up that spoon out of his pocket. Shestopped, with her mouth open and her hands up; and as for me, I wishedI was in Jeruslem or somewheres. But not long, because she says:“It’s _just_ as I expected. So you had it in your pocket all the time;and like as not you’ve got the other things there, too. How’d it getthere?”“I reely don’t know, Sally,” he says, kind of apologizing, “or youknow I would tell. I was a-studying over my text in Acts Seventeenbefore breakfast, and I reckon I put it in there, not noticing,meaning to put my Testament in, and it must be so, because myTestament ain’t in; but I’ll go and see; and if the Testament is whereI had it, I’ll know I didn’t put it in, and that will show that I laidthe Testament down and took up the spoon, and—”“Oh, for the land’s sake! Give a body a rest! Go ’long now, the wholekit and biling of ye; and don’t come nigh me again till I’ve got backmy peace of mind.”_I’d_ ’a’ heard her if she’d ’a’ said it to herself, let alone speakingit out; and I’d ’a’ got up and obeyed her if I’d ’a’ been dead. As wewas passing through the setting-room the old man he took up his hat,and the shingle-nail fell out on the floor, and he just merely pickedit up and laid it on the mantel-shelf, and never said nothing, andwent out. Tom see him do it, and remembered about the spoon, and says:“Well, it ain’t no use to send things by _him_ no more, he ain’treliable.” Then he says: “But he done us a good turn with the spoon,anyway, without knowing it, and so we’ll go and do him one without_him_ knowing it—stop up his rat-holes.”There was a noble good lot of them down cellar, and it took us a wholehour, but we done the job tight and good and ship-shape. Then we heardsteps on the stairs, and blowed out our light and hid; and here comesthe old man, with a candle in one hand and a bundle of stuff int’other, looking as absent-minded as year before last. He wenta-mooning around, first to one rat-hole and then another, till he’dbeen to them all. Then he stood about five minutes, pickingtallow-drip off of his candle and thinking. Then he turns off slow anddreamy towards the stairs, saying:“Well, for the life of me I can’t remember when I done it. I couldshow her now that I warn’t to blame on account of the rats. But nevermind—let it go. I reckon it wouldn’t do no good.”And so he went on a-mumbling up-stairs, and then we left. He was amighty nice old man. And always is.Tom was a good deal bothered about what to do for a spoon, but he saidwe’d got to have it; so he took a think. When he had ciphered it outhe told me how we was to do; then we went and waited around thespoon-basket till we see Aunt Sally coming, and then Tom went tocounting the spoons and laying them out to one side, and I slid one ofthem up my sleeve, and Tom says:“Why, Aunt Sally, there ain’t but nine spoons _yet_.”She says:“Go ’long to your play, and don’t bother me. I know better, I counted’m myself.”“Well, I’ve counted them twice, Aunty, and _I_ can’t make but nine.”She looked out of all patience, but of course she come tocount—anybody would.“I declare to gracious ther’ _ain’t_ but nine!” she says. “Why, whatin the world—plague _take_ the things, I’ll count ’m again.”So I slipped back the one I had, and when she got done counting, shesays:“Hang the troublesome rubbage, ther’s _ten_ now!” and she looked huffyand bothered both. But Tom says:“Why, Aunty, _I_ don’t think there’s ten.”“You numskull, didn’t you see me _count_ ’m?”“I know, but—”“Well, I’ll count ’m again.”So I smouched one, and they come out nine, same as the other time.Well, she _was_ in a tearing way—just a-trembling all over, she wasso mad. But she counted and counted till she got that addled she’dstart to count in the _basket_ for a spoon sometimes; and so, threetimes they come out right, and three times they come out wrong. Thenshe grabbed up the basket and slammed it across the house and knockedthe cat galley-west; and she said cler out and let her have somepeace, and if we come bothering around her again betwixt that anddinner she’d skin us. So we had the odd spoon, and dropped it in herapron pocket whilst she was a-giving us our sailing orders, and Jimgot it all right, along with her shingle-nail, before noon. We wasvery well satisfied with this business, and Tom allowed it was worthtwice the trouble it took, because he said _now_ she couldn’t evercount them spoons twice alike again to save her life; and wouldn’tbelieve she’d counted them right if she _did_; and said that aftershe’d about counted her head off for the next three days he judgedshe’d give it up and offer to kill anybody that wanted her to evercount them any more.So we put the sheet back on the line that night, and stole one out ofher closet; and kept on putting it back and stealing it again for acouple of days till she didn’t know how many sheets she had any more,and she didn’t _care_, and warn’t a-going to bullyrag the rest of hersoul out about it, and wouldn’t count them again not to save her life;she druther die first.So we was all right now, as to the shirt and the sheet and the spoonand the candles, by the help of the calf and the rats and the mixed-upcounting; and as to the candlestick, it warn’t no consequence, itwould blow over by and by.But that pie was a job; we had no end of trouble with that pie. Wefixed it up away down in the woods, and cooked it there; and we got itdone at last, and very satisfactory, too; but not all in one day; andwe had to use up three washpans full of flour before we got through,and we got burnt pretty much all over, in places, and eyes put outwith the smoke; because, you see, we didn’t want nothing but a crust,and we couldn’t prop it up right, and she would always cave in. But ofcourse we thought of the right way at last—which was to cook theladder, too, in the pie. So then we laid in with Jim the second night,and tore up the sheet all in little strings and twisted them together,and long before daylight we had a lovely rope that you could ’a’ hunga person with. We let on it took nine months to make it.And in the forenoon we took it down to the woods, but it wouldn’t gointo the pie. Being made of a whole sheet, that way, there was ropeenough for forty pies if we’d ’a’ wanted them, and plenty left overfor soup, or sausage, or anything you choose. We could ’a’ had a wholedinner.But we didn’t need it. All we needed was just enough for the pie, andso we throwed the rest away. We didn’t cook none of the pies in thewashpan—afraid the solder would melt; but Uncle Silas he had a noblebrass warming-pan which he thought considerable of, because itbelonged to one of his ancesters with a long wooden handle that comeover from England with William the Conqueror in the _Mayflower_ or oneof them early ships and was hid away up garret with a lot of other oldpots and things that was valuable, not on account of being anyaccount, because they warn’t, but on account of them being relicts,you know, and we snaked her out, private, and took her down there, butshe failed on the first pies, because we didn’t know how, but she comeup smiling on the last one. We took and lined her with dough, and sether in the coals, and loaded her up with rag rope, and put on a doughroof, and shut down the lid, and put hot embers on top, and stood offfive foot, with the long handle, cool and comfortable, and in fifteenminutes she turned out a pie that was a satisfaction to look at. Butthe person that et it would want to fetch a couple of kags oftoothpicks along, for if that rope ladder wouldn’t cramp him down tobusiness I don’t know nothing what I’m talking about, and lay him inenough stomach-ache to last him till next time, too.Nat didn’t look when we put the witch pie in Jim’s pan; and we putthe three tin plates in the bottom of the pan under the vittles; andso Jim got everything all right, and as soon as he was by himself hebusted into the pie and hid the rope ladder inside of his straw tick,and scratched some marks on a tin plate and throwed it out of thewindow-hole.CHAPTER XXXVIIIMaking them pens was a distressid tough job, and so was the saw; andJim allowed the inscription was going to be the toughest of all.That’s the one which the prisoner has to scrabble on the wall. But hehad to have it; Tom said he’d _got_ to; there warn’t no case of astate prisoner not scrabbling his inscription to leave behind, and hiscoat of arms.“Look at Lady Jane Grey,” he says; “look at Gilford Dudley; look atold Northumberland! Why, Huck, s’pose it _is_ considerbletrouble?—what you going to do?—how you going to get around it? Jim’s_got_ to do his inscription and coat of arms. They all do.”Jim says:“Why, Mars Tom, I hain’t got no coat o’ arm; I hain’t got nuffn butdish yer ole shirt, en you knows I got to keep de journal on dat.”“Oh, you don’t understand, Jim; a coat of arms is very different.”“Well,” I says, “Jim’s right, anyway, when he says he ain’t got nocoat of arms, because he hain’t.”“I reckon _I_ knowed that,” Tom says, “but you bet he’ll have one beforehe goes out of this—because he’s going out _right_, and there ain’tgoing to be no flaws in his record.”So whilst me and Jim filed away at the pens on a brickbat apiece, Jima-making his’n out of the brass and I making mine out of the spoon,Tom set to work to think out the coat of arms. By and by he said he’dstruck so many good ones he didn’t hardly know which to take, butthere was one which he reckoned he’d decide on. He says:“On the scutcheon we’ll have a bend _or_ in the dexter base, a saltire_murrey_ in the fess, with a dog, couchant, for common charge, andunder his foot a chain embattled, for slavery, with a chevron _vert_in a chief engrailed, and three invected lines on a field _azure_,with the nombril points rampant on a dancette indented; crest, arunaway nigger, _sable_, with his bundle over his shoulder on a barsinister; and a couple of gules for supporters, which is you and me;motto, _Maggiore fretta, minore atto_. Got it out of a book—means themore haste the less speed.”“Geewhillikins,” I says, “but what does the rest of it mean?”“We ain’t got no time to bother over that,” he says; “we got to dig inlike all git-out.”“Well, anyway,” I says, “what’s _some_ of it? What’s a fess?”“A fess—a fess is—_you_ don’t need to know what a fess is. I’ll showhim how to make it when he gets to it.”“Shucks, Tom,” I says, “I think you might tell a person. What’s a barsinister?”“Oh, _I_ don’t know. But he’s got to have it. All the nobility does.”That was just his way. If it didn’t suit him to explain a thing toyou, he wouldn’t do it. You might pump at him a week, it wouldn’t makeno difference.He’d got all that coat-of-arms business fixed, so now he started in tofinish up the rest of that part of the work, which was to plan out amournful inscription—said Jim got to have one, like they all done. Hemade up a lot, and wrote them out on a paper, and read them off, so:  _1. Here a captive heart busted.   2. Here a poor prisoner, forsook by the world and   friends, fretted his sorrowful life.   3. Here a lonely heart broke, and a worn spirit went   to its rest, after thirty-seven years of solitary captivity.   4. Here, homeless and friendless, after thirty-seven   years of bitter captivity, perished a noble stranger,   natural son of Louis XIV._Tom’s voice trembled whilst he was reading them, and he most brokedown. When he got done he couldn’t no way make up his mind which onefor Jim to scrabble onto the wall, they was all so good; but at lasthe allowed he would let him scrabble them all on. Jim said it wouldtake him a year to scrabble such a lot of truck onto the logs with anail, and he didn’t know how to make letters, besides; but Tom said hewould block them out for him, and then he wouldn’t have nothing to dobut just follow the lines. Then pretty soon he says:“Come to think, the logs ain’t a-going to do; they don’t have logwalls in a dungeon: we got to dig the inscriptions into a rock. We’llfetch a rock.”Jim said the rock was worse than the logs; he said it would take himsuch a pison long time to dig them into a rock he wouldn’t ever getout. But Tom said he would let me help him do it. Then he took a lookto see how me and Jim was getting along with the pens. It was mostpesky tedious hard work and slow, and didn’t give my hands no show toget well of the sores, and we didn’t seem to make no headway, hardly;so Tom says:“I know how to fix it. We got to have a rock for the coat of arms andmournful inscriptions, and we can kill two birds with that same rock.There’s a gaudy big grindstone down at the mill, and we’ll smouch it,and carve the things on it, and file out the pens and the saw on it,too.”It warn’t no slouch of an idea; and it warn’t no slouch of agrindstone nuther; but we allowed we’d tackle it. It warn’t quitemidnight yet, so we cleared out for the mill, leaving Jim at work. Wesmouched the grindstone, and set out to roll her home, but it was amost nation tough job. Sometimes, do what we could, we couldn’t keepher from falling over, and she come mighty near mashing us every time.Tom said she was going to get one of us, sure, before we got through.We got her half-way; and then we was plumb played out, and mostdrownded with sweat. We see it warn’t no use; we got to go and fetchJim. So he raised up his bed and slid the chain off of the bed-leg,and wrapt it round and round his neck, and we crawled out through ourhole and down there, and Jim and me laid into that grindstone andwalked her along like nothing; and Tom superintended. He couldout-superintend any boy I ever see. He knowed how to do everything.Our hole was pretty big, but it warn’t big enough to get thegrindstone through; but Jim he took the pick and soon made it bigenough. Then Tom marked out them things on it with the nail, and setJim to work on them, with the nail for a chisel and an iron bolt fromthe rubbage in the lean-to for a hammer, and told him to work till therest of his candle quit on him, and then he could go to bed, and hidethe grindstone under his straw tick and sleep on it. Then we helpedhim fix his chain back on the bed-leg, and was ready for bedourselves. But Tom thought of something, and says:“You got any spiders in here, Jim?”“No, sah, thanks to goodness I hain’t, Mars Tom.”“All right, we’ll get you some.”“But bless you, honey, I doan’ _want_ none. I’s afeard un um. I jis’’s soon have rattlesnakes aroun’.”Tom thought a minute or two, and says:“It’s a good idea. And I reckon it’s been done. It _must_ ’a’ beendone; it stands to reason. Yes, it’s a prime good idea. Where couldyou keep it?”“Keep what, Mars Tom?”“Why, a rattlesnake.”“De goodness gracious alive, Mars Tom! Why, if dey was a rattlesnaketo come in heah I’d take en bust right out thoo dat log wall, I would,wid my head.”“Why, Jim, you wouldn’t be afraid of it after a little. You could tameit.”“_Tame_ it!”“Yes—easy enough. Every animal is grateful for kindness and petting,and they wouldn’t _think_ of hurting a person that pets them. Any bookwill tell you that. You try—that’s all I ask; just try for two orthree days. Why, you can get him so in a little while that he’ll loveyou; and sleep with you; and won’t stay away from you a minute; andwill let you wrap him round your neck and put his head in your mouth.”“_Please_, Tom—_doan_’ talk so! I can’t _stan’_ it! He’d _let_ meshove his head in my mouf—fer a favor, hain’t it? I lay he’d wait apow’ful long time ’fo’ I _ast_ him. En mo’ en dat, I doan’ _want_ himto sleep wid me.”“Jim, don’t act so foolish. A prisoner’s _got_ to have some kind of adumb pet, and if a rattlesnake hain’t ever been tried, why, there’smore glory to be gained in your being the first to ever try it thanany other way you could ever think of to save your life.”“Why, Mars Tom, I doan’ _want_ no sich glory. Snake take ’n bite Jim’schin off, den _whah_ is de glory? No, sah, I doan’ want no sichdoin’s.”“Blame it, can’t you _try?_ I only _want_ you to try—you needn’t keepit up if it don’t work.”“But de trouble all _done_ ef de snake bite me while I’s a-tryin’ him.Mars Tom, I’s willin’ to tackle mos’ anything ’at ain’t onreasonable,but ef you en Huck fetches a rattlesnake in heah for me to tame, I’sgwyne to _leave_, dat’s _shore_.”“Well, then, let it go, let it go, if you’re so bull-headed about it.We can get you some garter-snakes, and you can tie some buttons ontheir tails, and let on they’re rattlesnakes, and I reckon that ’llhave to do.”“I k’n stan’ _dem_, Mars Tom, but blame’ ’f I couldn’ get along widoutum, I tell you dat. I never knowed b’fo’ ’twas so much bother andtrouble to be a prisoner.”“Well, it _always_ is when it’s done right. You got any rats aroundhere?”“No, sah, I hain’t seed none.”“Well, we’ll get you some rats.”“Why, Mars Tom, I doan’ _want_ no rats. Dey’s de dadblamedest cretursto ’sturb a body, en rustle roun’ over ’im, en bite his feet, whenhe’s tryin’ to sleep, I ever see. No, sah, gimme g’yarter-snakes, ’fI’s got to have ’m, but doan’ gimme no rats; I hain’ got no use f’rum, skasely.”“But, Jim, you _got_ to have ’em—they all do. So don’t make no morefuss about it. Prisoners ain’t ever without rats. There ain’t noinstance of it. And they train them, and pet them, and learn themtricks, and they get to be as sociable as flies. But you got to playmusic to them. You got anything to play music on?”“I ain’ got nuffn but a coase comb en a piece o’ paper, en ajuice-harp; but I reck’n dey wouldn’ take no stock in a juice-harp.”“Yes they would. _They_ don’t care what kind of music ’tis. Ajews-harp’s plenty good enough for a rat. All animals like music—in aprison they dote on it. Specially, painful music; and you can’t get noother kind out of a jew’s-harp. It always interests them; they comeout to see what’s the matter with you. Yes, you’re all right; you’refixed very well. You want to set on your bed nights before you go tosleep, and early in the mornings, and play your jew’s-harp; play ’TheLast Link is Broken’—that’s the thing that ’ll scoop a rat quicker ’nanything else; and when you’ve played about two minutes you’ll see allthe rats, and the snakes, and spiders and things begin to feel worriedabout you, and come. And they’ll just fairly swarm over you, and havea noble good time.”“Yes, _dey_ will, I reck’n, Mars Tom, but what kine er time is _Jim_havin’? Blest if I kin see de pint. But I’ll do it ef I got to. Ireck’n I better keep de animals satisfied, en not have no trouble inde house.”Tom waited to think it over, and see if there wasn’t nothing else; andpretty soon he says:“Oh, there’s one thing I forgot. Could you raise a flower here, do youreckon?”“I doan’ know but maybe I could, Mars Tom; but it’s tolable dark inheah, en I ain’ got no use f’r no flower, nohow, en she’d be a pow’fulsight o’ trouble.”“Well, you try it, anyway. Some other prisoners has done it.”“One er dem big cat-tail-lookin’ mullen-stalks would grow in heah,Mars Tom, I reck’n, but she wouldn’t be wuth half de trouble she’dcoss.”“Don’t you believe it. We’ll fetch you a little one, and you plant itin the corner over there, and raise it. And don’t call it mullen, callit Pitchiola—that’s its right name when it’s in a prison. And youwant to water it with your tears.”“Why, I got plenty spring water, Mars Tom.”“You don’t _want_ spring water; you want to water it with your tears.It’s the way they always do.”“Why, Mars Tom, I lay I kin raise one er dem mullen-stalks twyste widspring water whiles another man’s a _start’n_ one wid tears.”“That ain’t the idea. You _got_ to do it with tears.”“She’ll die on my han’s, Mars Tom, she sholy will; kase I doan’skasely ever cry.”So Tom was stumped. But he studied it over, and then said Jim wouldhave to worry along the best he could with an onion. He promised hewould go to the nigger cabins and drop one, private, in Jim’scoffee-pot, in the morning. Jim said he would “jis’ ’s soon havetobacker in his coffee”; and found so much fault with it, and with thework and bother of raising the mullen, and jew’s-harping the rats, andpetting and flattering up the snakes and spiders and things, on top ofall the other work he had to do on pens, and inscriptions, andjournals, and things, which made it more trouble and worry andresponsibility to be a prisoner than anything he ever undertook, thatTom most lost all patience with him; and said he was just loadeneddown with more gaudier chances than a prisoner ever had in the worldto make a name for himself, and yet he didn’t know enough toappreciate them, and they was just about wasted on him. So Jim he wassorry, and said he wouldn’t behave so no more, and then me and Tomshoved for bed.CHAPTER XXXIXIn the morning we went up to the village and bought a wire rat-trapand fetched it down, and unstopped the best rat-hole, and in about anhour we had fifteen of the bulliest kind of ones; and then we took itand put it in a safe place under Aunt Sally’s bed. But while we wasgone for spiders little Thomas Franklin Benjamin Jefferson ElexanderPhelps found it there, and opened the door of it to see if the ratswould come out, and they did; and Aunt Sally she come in, and when wegot back she was a-standing on top of the bed raising Cain, and therats was doing what they could to keep off the dull times for her. Soshe took and dusted us both with the hickry, and we was as much as twohours catching another fifteen or sixteen, drat that meddlesome cub,and they warn’t the likeliest, nuther, because the first haul was thepick of the flock. I never see a likelier lot of rats than what thatfirst haul was.We got a splendid stock of sorted spiders, and bugs, and frogs, andcaterpillars, and one thing or another; and we like to got a hornet’snest, but we didn’t. The family was at home. We didn’t give it rightup, but stayed with them as long as we could; because we allowed we’dtire them out or they’d got to tire us out, and they done it. Then wegot allycumpain and rubbed on the places, and was pretty near allright again, but couldn’t set down convenient. And so we went for thesnakes, and grabbed a couple of dozen garters and house-snakes, andput them in a bag, and put it in our room, and by that time it wassupper-time, and a rattling good honest day’s work: and hungry?—oh,no, I reckon not! And there warn’t a blessed snake up there when wewent back—we didn’t half tie the sack, and they worked out somehow,and left. But it didn’t matter much, because they was still on thepremises somewheres. So we judged we could get some of them again. No,there warn’t no real scarcity of snakes about the house for aconsiderable spell. You’d see them dripping from the rafters andplaces every now and then; and they generly landed in your plate, ordown the back of your neck, and most of the time where you didn’t wantthem. Well, they was handsome and striped, and there warn’t no harm ina million of them; but that never made no difference to Aunt Sally;she despised snakes, be the breed what they might, and she couldn’tstand them no way you could fix it; and every time one of them floppeddown on her, it didn’t make no difference what she was doing, shewould just lay that work down and light out. I never see such a woman.And you could hear her whoop to Jericho. You couldn’t get her to takea-holt of one of them with the tongs. And if she turned over and foundone in bed she would scramble out and lift a howl that you would thinkthe house was afire. She disturbed the old man so that he said hecould most wish there hadn’t ever been no snakes created. Why, afterevery last snake had been gone clear out of the house for as much as aweek Aunt Sally warn’t over it yet; she warn’t near over it; when shewas setting thinking about something you could touch her on the backof her neck with a feather and she would jump right out of herstockings. It was very curious. But Tom said all women was just so. Hesaid they was made that way for some reason or other.We got a licking every time one of our snakes come in her way, and sheallowed these lickings warn’t nothing to what she would do if we everloaded up the place again with them. I didn’t mind the lickings,because they didn’t amount to nothing; but I minded the trouble we hadto lay in another lot. But we got them laid in, and all the otherthings; and you never see a cabin as blithesome as Jim’s was whenthey’d all swarm out for music and go for him. Jim didn’t like thespiders, and the spiders didn’t like Jim; and so they’d lay for him,and make it mighty warm for him. And he said that between the rats andthe snakes and the grindstone there warn’t no room in bed for him,skasely; and when there was, a body couldn’t sleep, it was so lively,and it was always lively, he said, because _they_ never all slept atone time, but took turn about, so when the snakes was asleep the ratswas on deck, and when the rats turned in the snakes come on watch, sohe always had one gang under him, in his way, and t’other gang havinga circus over him, and if he got up to hunt a new place the spiderswould take a chance at him as he crossed over. He said if he ever gotout this time he wouldn’t ever be a prisoner again, not for a salary.Well, by the end of three weeks everything was in pretty good shape.The shirt was sent in early, in a pie, and every time a rat bit Jim hewould get up and write a line in his journal whilst the ink was fresh;the pens was made, the inscriptions and so on was all carved on thegrindstone; the bed-leg was sawed in two, and we had et up thesawdust, and it give us a most amazing stomach-ache. We reckoned wewas all going to die, but didn’t. It was the most undigestible sawdustI ever see; and Tom said the same. But as I was saying, we’d got allthe work done now, at last; and we was all pretty much fagged out,too, but mainly Jim. The old man had wrote a couple of times to theplantation below Orleans to come and get their runaway nigger, buthadn’t got no answer, because there warn’t no such plantation; so heallowed he would advertise Jim in the St. Louis and New Orleanspapers; and when he mentioned the St. Louis ones it give me the coldshivers, and I see we hadn’t no time to lose. So Tom said, now for thenonnamous letters.“What’s them?” I says.“Warnings to the people that something is up. Sometimes it’s done oneway, sometimes another. But there’s always somebody spying around thatgives notice to the governor of the castle. When Louis XVI. was goingto light out of the Tooleries a servant-girl done it. It’s a very goodway, and so is the nonnamous letters. We’ll use them both. And it’susual for the prisoner’s mother to change clothes with him, and shestays in, and he slides out in her clothes. We’ll do that, too.”“But looky here, Tom, what do we want to _warn_ anybody for thatsomething’s up? Let them find it out for themselves—it’s theirlookout.”“Yes, I know; but you can’t depend on them. It’s the way they’ve actedfrom the very start—left us to do _everything_. They’re so confidingand mullet-headed they don’t take notice of nothing at all. So if wedon’t _give_ them notice there won’t be nobody nor nothing tointerfere with us, and so after all our hard work and trouble thisescape ’ll go off perfectly flat; won’t amount to nothing—won’t benothing _to_ it.”“Well, as for me, Tom, that’s the way I’d like.”“Shucks!” he says, and looked disgusted. So I says:“But I ain’t going to make no complaint. Any way that suits you suitsme. What you going to do about the servant-girl?”“You’ll be her. You slide in, in the middle of the night, and hookthat yaller girl’s frock.”“Why, Tom, that ’ll make trouble next morning; because, of course, sheprob’bly hain’t got any but that one.”“I know; but you don’t want it but fifteen minutes, to carry thenonnamous letter and shove it under the front door.”“All right, then, I’ll do it; but I could carry it just as handy in myown togs.”“You wouldn’t look like a servant-girl _then_, would you?”“No, but there won’t be nobody to see what I look like, _anyway_.”“That ain’t got nothing to do with it. The thing for us to do is justto do our _duty_, and not worry about whether anybody _sees_ us do itor not. Hain’t you got no principle at all?”“All right, I ain’t saying nothing; I’m the servant-girl. Who’s Jim’smother?”“I’m his mother. I’ll hook a gown from Aunt Sally.”“Well, then, you’ll have to stay in the cabin when me and Jim leaves.”“Not much. I’ll stuff Jim’s clothes full of straw and lay it on hisbed to represent his mother in disguise, and Jim ’ll take the niggerwoman’s gown off of me and wear it, and we’ll all evade together. Whena prisoner of style escapes it’s called an evasion. It’s always calledso when a king escapes, f’rinstance. And the same with a king’s son;it don’t make no difference whether he’s a natural one or an unnaturalone.”So Tom he wrote the nonnamous letter, and I smouched the yallerwench’s frock that night, and put it on, and shoved it under the frontdoor, the way Tom told me to. It said:   _Beware. Trouble is brewing. Keep a sharp lookout.      UNKNOWN FRIEND._Next night we stuck a picture, which Tom drawed in blood, of a skulland crossbones on the front door; and next night another one of acoffin on the back door. I never see a family in such a sweat. Theycouldn’t ’a’ been worse scared if the place had ’a’ been full ofghosts laying for them behind everything and under the beds andshivering through the air. If a door banged, Aunt Sally she jumped andsaid “ouch!” if anything fell, she jumped and said “ouch!” if youhappened to touch her, when she warn’t noticing, she done the same;she couldn’t face no way and be satisfied, because she allowed therewas something behind her every time—so she was always a-whirlingaround sudden, and saying “ouch,” and before she’d got two-thirdsaround she’d whirl back again, and say it again; and she was afraid togo to bed, but she dasn’t set up. So the thing was working very well,Tom said; he said he never see a thing work more satisfactory. He saidit showed it was done right.So he said, now for the grand bulge! So the very next morning at thestreak of dawn we got another letter ready, and was wondering what webetter do with it, because we heard them say at supper they was goingto have a nigger on watch at both doors all night. Tom he went downthe lightning-rod to spy around; and the nigger at the back door wasasleep, and he stuck it in the back of his neck and come back. Thisletter said:_Don’t betray me, I wish to be your friend. There is a desprate gangof cutthroats from over in the Indian Territory going to steal yourrunaway nigger to-night, and they have been trying to scare you so asyou will stay in the house and not bother them. I am one of the gang,but have got religgion and wish to quit it and lead an honest lifeagain, and will betray the helish design. They will sneak down fromnorthards, along the fence, at midnight exact, with a false key, andgo in the nigger’s cabin to get him. I am to be off a piece and blow atin horn if I see any danger; but stead of that I will BA like a sheepsoon as they get in and not blow at all; then whilst they are gettinghis chains loose, you slip there and lock them in, and can kill themat your leasure. Don’t do anything but just the way I am telling you;if you do they will suspicion something and raise whoop-jamboreehoo. Ido not wish any reward but to know I have done the right thing.__UNKNOWN FRIEND._CHAPTER XLWe was feeling pretty good after breakfast, and took my canoe and wentover the river a-fishing, with a lunch, and had a good time, and tooka look at the raft and found her all right, and got home late tosupper, and found them in such a sweat and worry they didn’t knowwhich end they was standing on, and made us go right off to bed theminute we was done supper, and wouldn’t tell us what the trouble was,and never let on a word about the new letter, but didn’t need to,because we knowed as much about it as anybody did, and as soon as wewas half up-stairs and her back was turned we slid for the cellarcubboard and loaded up a good lunch and took it up to our room andwent to bed, and got up about half past eleven, and Tom put on AuntSally’s dress that he stole and was going to start with the lunch, butsays:“Where’s the butter?”“I laid out a hunk of it,” I says, “on a piece of a corn-pone.”“Well, you _left_ it laid out, then—it ain’t here.”“We can get along without it,” I says.“We can get along _with_ it, too,” he says; “just you slide downcellar and fetch it. And then mosey right down the lightning-rod andcome along. I’ll go and stuff the straw into Jim’s clothes torepresent his mother in disguise, and be ready to _ba_ like a sheepand shove soon as you get there.”So out he went, and down cellar went I. The hunk of butter, big as aperson’s fist, was where I had left it, so I took up the slab ofcorn-pone with it on, and blowed out my light, and started up-stairsvery stealthy, and got up to the main floor all right, but here comesAunt Sally with a candle, and I clapped the truck in my hat, andclapped my hat on my head, and the next second she see me; and shesays:“You been down cellar?”“Yes’m.”“What you been doing down there?”“Noth’n.”“_Noth’n!_”“No’m.”“Well, then, what possessed you to go down there this time of night?”“I don’t know ’m.”“You don’t _know?_ Don’t answer me that way. Tom, I want to know whatyou been _doing_ down there.”“I hain’t been doing a single thing, Aunt Sally, I hope to gracious ifI have.”I reckoned she’d let me go now, and as a generl thing she would; but Is’pose there was so many strange things going on she was just in asweat about every little thing that warn’t yard-stick straight; so shesays, very decided:“You just march into that setting-room and stay there till I come. Youbeen up to something you no business to, and I lay I’ll find out whatit is before _I’m_ done with you.”So she went away as I opened the door and walked into thesetting-room. My, but there was a crowd there! Fifteen farmers, andevery one of them had a gun. I was most powerful sick, and slunk to achair and set down. They was setting around, some of them talking alittle, in a low voice, and all of them fidgety and uneasy, but tryingto look like they warn’t; but I knowed they was, because they wasalways taking off their hats, and putting them on, and scratchingtheir heads, and changing their seats, and fumbling with theirbuttons. I warn’t easy myself, but I didn’t take my hat off, all thesame.I did wish Aunt Sally would come, and get done with me, and lick me,if she wanted to, and let me get away and tell Tom how we’d overdonethis thing, and what a thundering hornet’s nest we’d got ourselvesinto, so we could stop fooling around straight off, and clear out withJim before these rips got out of patience and come for us.At last she come and begun to ask me questions, but I _couldn’t_answer them straight, I didn’t know which end of me was up; becausethese men was in such a fidget now that some was wanting to startright _now_ and lay for them desperadoes, and saying it warn’t but afew minutes to midnight; and others was trying to get them to hold onand wait for the sheep-signal; and here was Aunty pegging away at thequestions, and me a-shaking all over and ready to sink down in mytracks I was that scared; and the place getting hotter and hotter, andthe butter beginning to melt and run down my neck and behind my ears;and pretty soon, when one of them says, “_I’m_ for going and gettingin the cabin _first_ and right _now_, and catching them when theycome,” I most dropped; and a streak of butter come a-trickling down myforehead, and Aunt Sally she see it, and turns white as a sheet, andsays:“For the land’s sake, what _is_ the matter with the child? He’s gotthe brain-fever as shore as you’re born, and they’re oozing out!”And everybody runs to see, and she snatches off my hat, and out comesthe bread and what was left of the butter, and she grabbed me, andhugged me, and says:“Oh, what a turn you did give me! and how glad and grateful I am itain’t no worse; for luck’s against us, and it never rains but itpours, and when I see that truck I thought we’d lost you, for I knowedby the color and all it was just like your brains would be if—Dear,dear, whyd’nt you _tell_ me that was what you’d been down there for,_I_ wouldn’t ’a’ cared. Now cler out to bed, and don’t lemme see nomore of you till morning!”I was up-stairs in a second, and down the lightning-rod in anotherone, and shinning through the dark for the lean-to. I couldn’t hardlyget my words out, I was so anxious; but I told Tom as quick as I couldwe must jump for it now, and not a minute to lose—the house full ofmen, yonder, with guns!His eyes just blazed; and he says:“No!—is that so? _Ain’t_ it bully! Why, Huck, if it was to do overagain, I bet I could fetch two hundred! If we could put it off till—”“Hurry! _hurry!_” I says. “Where’s Jim?”“Right at your elbow; if you reach out your arm you can touch him.He’s dressed, and everything’s ready. Now we’ll slide out and give thesheep-signal.”But then we heard the tramp of men coming to the door, and heard thembegin to fumble with the padlock, and heard a man say:“I _told_ you we’d be too soon; they haven’t come—the door is locked.Here, I’ll lock some of you into the cabin, and you lay for ’em in thedark and kill ’em when they come; and the rest scatter around a piece,and listen if you can hear ’em coming.”So in they come, but couldn’t see us in the dark, and most trod on uswhilst we was hustling to get under the bed. But we got under allright, and out through the hole, swift but soft—Jim first, me next,and Tom last, which was according to Tom’s orders. Now we was in thelean-to, and heard trampings close by outside. So we crept to thedoor, and Tom stopped us there and put his eye to the crack, butcouldn’t make out nothing, it was so dark; and whispered and said hewould listen for the steps to get further, and when he nudged us Jimmust glide out first, and him last. So he set his ear to the crack andlistened, and listened, and listened, and the steps a-scraping aroundout there all the time; and at last he nudged us, and we slid out, andstooped down, not breathing, and not making the least noise, andslipped stealthy towards the fence in Injun file, and got to it allright, and me and Jim over it; but Tom’s britches catched fast on asplinter on the top rail, and then he hear the steps coming, so he hadto pull loose, which snapped the splinter and made a noise; and as hedropped in our tracks and started somebody sings out:“Who’s that? Answer, or I’ll shoot!”But we didn’t answer; we just unfurled our heels and shoved. Thenthere was a rush, and a _bang_, _bang_, _bang!_ and the bullets fairlywhizzed around us! We heard them sing out:“Here they are! They’ve broke for the river! After ’em, boys, and turnloose the dogs!”So here they come, full tilt. We could hear them because they woreboots and yelled, but we didn’t wear no boots and didn’t yell. We wasin the path to the mill; and when they got pretty close onto us wedodged into the bush and let them go by, and then dropped in behindthem. They’d had all the dogs shut up, so they wouldn’t scare off therobbers; but by this time somebody had let them loose, and here theycome, making powwow enough for a million; but they was our dogs; so westopped in our tracks till they catched up; and when they see itwarn’t nobody but us, and no excitement to offer them, they only justsaid howdy, and tore right ahead towards the shouting and clattering;and then we up-steam again, and whizzed along after them till we wasnearly to the mill, and then struck up through the bush to where mycanoe was tied, and hopped in and pulled for dear life towards themiddle of the river, but didn’t make no more noise than we wasobleeged to. Then we struck out, easy and comfortable, for the islandwhere my raft was; and we could hear them yelling and barking at eachother all up and down the bank, till we was so far away the sounds gotdim and died out. And when we stepped onto the raft I says:“_Now_, old Jim, you’re a free man _again_, and I bet you won’t ever bea slave no more.”“En a mighty good job it wuz, too, Huck. It ’uz planned beautiful, enit ’uz _done_ beautiful; en dey ain’t _nobody_ kin git up a plan dat’smo’ mixed up en splendid den what dat one wuz.”We was all glad as we could be, but Tom was the gladdest of allbecause he had a bullet in the calf of his leg.When me and Jim heard that we didn’t feel as brash as what we didbefore. It was hurting him considerable, and bleeding; so we laid himin the wigwam and tore up one of the duke’s shirts for to bandage him,but he says:“Gimme the rags; I can do it myself. Don’t stop now; don’t fool aroundhere, and the evasion booming along so handsome; man the sweeps, andset her loose! Boys, we done it elegant!—’deed we did. I wish _we’d_’a’ had the handling of Louis XVI., there wouldn’t ’a’ been no ‘Son ofSaint Louis, ascend to heaven!’ wrote down in _his_ biography; no,sir, we’d ’a’ whooped him over the _border_—that’s what we’d ’a’ donewith _him_—and done it just as slick as nothing at all, too. Man thesweeps—man the sweeps!”But me and Jim was consulting—and thinking. And after we’d thought aminute, I says:“Say it, Jim.”So he says:“Well, den, dis is de way it look to me, Huck. Ef it wuz _him_ dat ’uzbein’ sot free, en one er de boys wuz to git shot, would he say, ’Goon en save me, nemmine ’bout a doctor f’r to save dis one’? Is datlike Mars Tom Sawyer? Would he say dat? You _bet_ he wouldn’t! _Well_,den, is _Jim_ gywne to say it? No, sah—I doan’ budge a step out’n displace ’dout a _doctor_; not if it’s forty year!”I knowed he was white inside, and I reckoned he’d say what he didsay—so it was all right now, and I told Tom I was a-going for adoctor. He raised considerable row about it, but me and Jim stuck toit and wouldn’t budge; so he was for crawling out and setting the raftloose himself; but we wouldn’t let him. Then he give us a piece of hismind, but it didn’t do no good.So when he sees me getting the canoe ready, he says:“Well, then, if you’re bound to go, I’ll tell you the way to do whenyou get to the village. Shut the door and blindfold the doctor tightand fast, and make him swear to be silent as the grave, and put apurse full of gold in his hand, and then take and lead him all aroundthe back alleys and everywheres in the dark, and then fetch him herein the canoe, in a roundabout way amongst the islands, and search himand take his chalk away from him, and don’t give it back to him tillyou get him back to the village, or else he will chalk this raft so hecan find it again. It’s the way they all do.”So I said I would, and left, and Jim was to hide in the woods when hesee the doctor coming till he was gone again.CHAPTER XLIThe doctor was an old man; a very nice, kind-looking old man when Igot him up. I told him me and my brother was over on Spanish Islandhunting yesterday afternoon, and camped on a piece of a raft we found,and about midnight he must ’a’ kicked his gun in his dreams, for itwent off and shot him in the leg, and we wanted him to go over thereand fix it and not say nothing about it, nor let anybody know, becausewe wanted to come home this evening and surprise the folks.“Who is your folks?” he says.“The Phelpses, down yonder.”“Oh,” he says. And after a minute, he says:“How’d you say he got shot?”“He had a dream,” I says, “and it shot him.”“Singular dream,” he says.So he lit up his lantern, and got his saddle-bags, and we started. Butwhen he see the canoe he didn’t like the look of her—said she was bigenough for one, but didn’t look pretty safe for two. I says:“Oh, you needn’t be afeard, sir, she carried the three of us easyenough.”“What three?”“Why, me and Sid, and—and—and _the guns_; that’s what I mean.”“Oh,” he says.But he put his foot on the gunnel and rocked her, and shook his head,and said he reckoned he’d look around for a bigger one. But they wasall locked and chained; so he took my canoe, and said for me to waittill he come back, or I could hunt around further, or maybe I bettergo down home and get them ready for the surprise if I wanted to. But Isaid I didn’t; so I told him just how to find the raft, and then hestarted.I struck an idea pretty soon. I says to myself, spos’n he can’t fixthat leg just in three shakes of a sheep’s tail, as the saying is?spos’n it takes him three or four days? What are we going to do?—layaround there till he lets the cat out of the bag? No, sir; I know what_I’ll_ do. I’ll wait, and when he comes back if he says he’s got to goany more I’ll get down there, too, if I swim; and we’ll take and tiehim, and keep him, and shove out down the river; and when Tom’s donewith him we’ll give him what it’s worth, or all we got, and then lethim get ashore.So then I crept into a lumber-pile to get some sleep; and next time Iwaked up the sun was away up over my head! I shot out and went for thedoctor’s house, but they told me he’d gone away in the night some timeor other, and warn’t back yet. Well, thinks I, that looks powerful badfor Tom, and I’ll dig out for the island right off. So away I shoved,and turned the corner, and nearly rammed my head into Uncle Silas’sstomach! He says:“Why, _Tom!_ Where you been all this time, you rascal?”“_I_ hain’t been nowheres,” I says, “only just hunting for the runawaynigger—me and Sid.”“Why, where ever did you go?” he says. “Your aunt’s been mightyuneasy.”“She needn’t,” I says, “because we was all right. We followed the menand the dogs, but they outrun us, and we lost them; but we thought weheard them on the water, so we got a canoe and took out after them andcrossed over, but couldn’t find nothing of them; so we cruised alongup-shore till we got kind of tired and beat out; and tied up the canoeand went to sleep, and never waked up till about an hour ago; then wepaddled over here to hear the news, and Sid’s at the post-office tosee what he can hear, and I’m a-branching out to get something to eatfor us, and then we’re going home.”So then we went to the post-office to get “Sid”; but just as Isuspicioned, he warn’t there; so the old man he got a letter out ofthe office, and we waited awhile longer, but Sid didn’t come; so theold man said, come along, let Sid foot it home, or canoe it, when hegot done fooling around—but we would ride. I couldn’t get him to letme stay and wait for Sid; and he said there warn’t no use in it, and Imust come along, and let Aunt Sally see we was all right.When we got home Aunt Sally was that glad to see me she laughed andcried both, and hugged me, and give me one of them lickings of hernthat don’t amount to shucks, and said she’d serve Sid the same when hecome.And the place was plum full of farmers and farmers’ wives, to dinner;and such another clack a body never heard. Old Mrs. Hotchkiss was theworst; her tongue was a-going all the time. She says:“Well, Sister Phelps, I’ve ransacked that-air cabin over, an’ Ib’lieve the nigger was crazy. I says to Sister Damrell—didn’t I,Sister Damrell?—s’I, he’s crazy, s’I—them’s the very words I said.You all hearn me: he’s crazy, s’I; everything shows it, s’I. Look atthat-air grindstone, s’I; want to tell _me’t_ any cretur ’t’s in hisright mind ’s a-goin’ to scrabble all them crazy things onto agrindstone? s’I. Here sich ’n’ sich a person busted his heart; ’n’here so ’n’ so pegged along for thirty-seven year, ’n’ allthat—natcherl son o’ Louis somebody, ’n’ sich everlast’n rubbage.He’s plumb crazy, s’I; it’s what I says in the fust place, it’s what Isays in the middle, ’n’ it’s what I says last ’n’ all the time—thenigger’s crazy—crazy ’s Nebokoodneezer, s’I.”“An’ look at that-air ladder made out’n rags, Sister Hotchkiss,” saysold Mrs. Damrell; “what in the name o’ goodness _could_ he ever wantof—”“The very words I was a-sayin’ no longer ago th’n this minute toSister Utterback, ’n’ she’ll tell you so herself. Sh-she, look atthat-air rag ladder, sh-she; ’n’ s’I, yes, _look_ at it, s’I—what_could_ he ’a’ wanted of it, s’I. Sh-she, Sister Hotchkiss, sh-she—”“But how in the nation’d they ever _git_ that grindstone _in_ there,_anyway?_ ’n’ who dug that-air _hole?_ ’n’ who—”“My very _words_, Brer Penrod! I was a-sayin’—pass that-air sasser o’m’lasses, won’t ye?—I was a-sayin’ to Sister Dunlap, jist thisminute, how _did_ they git that grindstone in there? s’I. Without_help_, mind you—’thout _help! Thar’s_ where ’tis. Don’t tell _me_,s’I; there _wuz_ help, s’I; ’n’ ther’ wuz a _plenty_ help, too, s’I;ther’s ben a _dozen_ a-helpin’ that nigger, ’n’ I lay I’d skin everylast nigger on this place but _I’d_ find out who done it, s’I;’n’ moreover, s’I—”“A _dozen_ says you!—_forty_ couldn’t ’a’ done everything that’s beendone. Look at them case-knife saws and things, how tedious they’vebeen made; look at that bed-leg sawed off with ’m, a week’s work forsix men: look at that nigger made out’n straw on the bed; and lookat—”“You may _well_ say it, Brer Hightower! It’s jist as I was a-sayin’ toBrer Phelps, his own self. S’e, what do _you_ think of it, SisterHotchkiss? s’e. Think o’ what, Brer Phelps? s’I. Think o’ that bed-legsawed off that a way? s’e? _Think_ of it? s’I. I lay it never sawed_itself_ off, s’I—somebody _sawed_ it, s’I; that’s my opinion, takeit or leave it, it mayn’t be no ’count, s’I, but sich as ’t is, it’smy opinion, s’I, ’n’ if anybody k’n start a better one, s’I, let him_do_ it, s’I, that’s all. I says to Sister Dunlap, s’I—”“Why, dog my cats, they must ’a’ ben a house full o’ niggers in thereevery night for four weeks to ’a’ done all that work, Sister Phelps.Look at that shirt—every last inch of it kivered over with secretAfrican writ’n done with blood! Must ’a’ ben a raft uv ’m at it rightalong, all the time, amost. Why, I’d give two dollars to have it readto me; ’n’ as for the niggers that wrote it, I ’low I’d take ’n’ lash’m t’ll—”“People to _help_ him, Brother Marples! Well, I reckon you’d _think_so if you’d ’a’ been in this house for a while back. Why, they’vestole everything they could lay their hands on—and we a-watching allthe time, mind you. They stole that shirt right off o’ the line! andas for that sheet they made the rag ladder out of, ther’ ain’t notelling how many times they _didn’t_ steal that; and flour, andcandles, and candlesticks, and spoons, and the old warming-pan, andmost a thousand things that I disremember now, and my new calicodress; and me and Silas and my Sid and Tom on the constant watch day_and_ night, as I was a-telling you, and not a one of us could catchhide nor hair nor sight nor sound of them; and here at the lastminute, lo and behold you, they slides right in under our noses andfools us, and not only fools _us_ but the Injun Territory robbers too,and actuly gets _away_ with that nigger safe and sound, and that withsixteen men and twenty-two dogs right on their very heels at that verytime! I tell you, it just bangs anything I ever _heard_ of. Why,_sperits_ couldn’t ’a’ done better and been no smarter. And I reckonthey must ’a’ _been_ sperits—because, because, _you_ know our dogs,and ther’ ain’t no better; well, them dogs never even got on the_track_ of ’m once! You explain _that_ to me if you can!—_any_ ofyou!”“Well, it does beat—”“Laws alive, I never—”“So help me, I wouldn’t ’a’ be—”“_House_-thieves as well as—”“Goodnessgracioussakes, I’d ’a’ ben afeard to _live_ in sich a—”“’Fraid to _live!_—why, I was that scared I dasn’t hardly go to bed,or get up, or lay down, or _set_ down, Sister Ridgeway. Why, they’dsteal the very—why, goodness sakes, you can guess what kind of afluster _I_ was in by the time midnight come last night. I hope togracious if I warn’t afraid they’d steal some o’ the family! I wasjust to that pass I didn’t have no reasoning faculties no more. Itlooks foolish enough _now_, in the daytime; but I says to myself,there’s my two poor boys asleep, ’way up-stairs in that lonesome room,and I declare to goodness I was that uneasy ’t I crep’ up there andlocked ’em in! I _did_. And anybody would. Because, you know, when youget scared that way, and it keeps running on, and getting worse andworse all the time, and your wits gets to addling, and you get todoing all sorts o’ wild things, and by and by you think to yourself,spos’n _I_ was a boy, and was away up there, and the door ain’t locked,and you—” She stopped, looking kind of wondering, and then she turnedher head around slow, and when her eye lit on me—I got up and took awalk.Says I to myself, I can explain better how we come to not be in thatroom this morning if I go out to one side and study over it a little.So I done it. But I dasn’t go fur, or she’d ’a’ sent for me. And whenit was late in the day the people all went, and then I come in andtold her the noise and shooting waked up me and “Sid,” and the doorwas locked, and we wanted to see the fun, so we went down thelightning-rod, and both of us got hurt a little, and we didn’t neverwant to try _that_ no more. And then I went on and told her all what Itold Uncle Silas before; and then she said she’d forgive us, and maybeit was all right enough anyway, and about what a body might expect ofboys, for all boys was a pretty harum-scarum lot as fur as she couldsee; and so, as long as no harm hadn’t come of it, she judged shebetter put in her time being grateful we was alive and well and shehad us still, stead of fretting over what was past and done. So thenshe kissed me, and patted me on the head, and dropped into a kind of abrown-study; and pretty soon jumps up, and says:“Why, lawsamercy, it’s most night, and Sid not come yet! What _has_become of that boy?”I see my chance; so I skips up and says:“I’ll run right up to town and get him,” I says.“No you won’t,” she says. “You’ll stay right wher’ you are; _one’s_enough to be lost at a time. If he ain’t here to supper, your uncle’ll go.”Well, he warn’t there to supper; so right after supper uncle went.He come back about ten a little bit uneasy; hadn’t run across Tom’strack. Aunt Sally was a good _deal_ uneasy; but Uncle Silas he saidthere warn’t no occasion to be—boys will be boys, he said, and you’llsee this one turn up in the morning all sound and right. So she had tobe satisfied. But she said she’d set up for him awhile anyway, andkeep a light burning so he could see it.And then when I went up to bed she come up with me and fetched hercandle, and tucked me in, and mothered me so good I felt mean, andlike I couldn’t look her in the face; and she set down on the bed andtalked with me a long time, and said what a splendid boy Sid was, anddidn’t seem to want to ever stop talking about him; and kept asking meevery now and then if I reckoned he could ’a’ got lost, or hurt, ormaybe drownded, and might be laying at this minute somewheressuffering or dead, and she not by him to help him, and so the tearswould drip down silent, and I would tell her that Sid was all right,and would be home in the morning, sure; and she would squeeze my hand,or maybe kiss me, and tell me to say it again, and keep on saying it,because it done her good, and she was in so much trouble. And when shewas going away she looked down in my eyes so steady and gentle, andsays:“The door ain’t going to be locked, Tom, and there’s the window andthe rod; but you’ll be good, _won’t_ you? And you won’t go? For _my_sake.”Laws knows I _wanted_ to go bad enough to see about Tom, and was allintending to go; but after that I wouldn’t ’a’ went, not for kingdoms.But she was on my mind and Tom was on my mind, so I slept veryrestless. And twice I went down the rod away in the night, and slippedaround front, and see her setting there by her candle in the windowwith her eyes towards the road and the tears in them; and I wished Icould do something for her, but I couldn’t, only to swear that Iwouldn’t never do nothing to grieve her any more. And the third time Iwaked up at dawn, and slid down, and she was there yet, and her candlewas most out, and her old gray head was resting on her hand, and shewas asleep.CHAPTER XLIIThe old man was up-town again before breakfast, but couldn’t get notrack of Tom; and both of them set at the table thinking, and notsaying nothing, and looking mournful, and their coffee getting cold,and not eating anything. And by and by the old man says:“Did I give you the letter?”“What letter?”“The one I got yesterday out of the post-office.”“No, you didn’t give me no letter.”“Well, I must ’a’ forgot it.”So he rummaged his pockets, and then went off somewheres where he hadlaid it down, and fetched it, and give it to her. She says:“Why, it’s from St. Petersburg—it’s from Sis.”I allowed another walk would do me good; but I couldn’t stir. Butbefore she could break it open she dropped it and run—for she seesomething. And so did I. It was Tom Sawyer on a mattress; and that olddoctor; and Jim, in _her_ calico dress, with his hands tied behindhim; and a lot of people. I hid the letter behind the first thing thatcome handy, and rushed. She flung herself at Tom, crying, and says:“Oh, he’s dead, he’s dead, I know he’s dead!”And Tom he turned his head a little, and muttered something or other,which showed he warn’t in his right mind; then she flung up her hands,and says:“He’s alive, thank God! And that’s enough!” and she snatched a kiss ofhim, and flew for the house to get the bed ready, and scatteringorders right and left at the niggers and everybody else, as fast asher tongue could go, every jump of the way.I followed the men to see what they was going to do with Jim; and theold doctor and Uncle Silas followed after Tom into the house. The menwas very huffy, and some of them wanted to hang Jim for an example toall the other niggers around there, so they wouldn’t be trying to runaway like Jim done, and making such a raft of trouble, and keeping awhole family scared most to death for days and nights. But the otherssaid, don’t do it, it wouldn’t answer at all; he ain’t our nigger, andhis owner would turn up and make us pay for him, sure. So that cooledthem down a little, because the people that’s always the most anxiousfor to hang a nigger that hain’t done just right is always the veryones that ain’t the most anxious to pay for him when they’ve got theirsatisfaction out of him.They cussed Jim considerble, though, and give him a cuff or two sidethe head once in a while, but Jim never said nothing, and he never leton to know me, and they took him to the same cabin, and put his ownclothes on him, and chained him again, and not to no bed-leg thistime, but to a big staple drove into the bottom log, and chained hishands, too, and both legs, and said he warn’t to have nothing butbread and water to eat after this till his owner come, or he was soldat auction because he didn’t come in a certain length of time, andfilled up our hole, and said a couple of farmers with guns must standwatch around about the cabin every night, and a bulldog tied to thedoor in the daytime; and about this time they was through with the joband was tapering off with a kind of generl good-by cussing, and thenthe old doctor comes and takes a look, and says:“Don’t be no rougher on him than you’re obleeged to, because he ain’ta bad nigger. When I got to where I found the boy I see I couldn’t cutthe bullet out without some help, and he warn’t in no condition for meto leave to go and get help; and he got a little worse and a littleworse, and after a long time he went out of his head, and wouldn’t letme come a-nigh him any more, and said if I chalked his raft he’d killme, and no end of wild foolishness like that, and I see I couldn’t doanything at all with him; so I says, I got to have _help_ somehow; andthe minute I says it out crawls this nigger from somewheres and sayshe’ll help, and he done it, too, and done it very well. Of course Ijudged he must be a runaway nigger, and there I _was!_ and there I hadto stick right straight along all the rest of the day and all night.It was a fix, I tell you! I had a couple of patients with the chills,and of course I’d of liked to run up to town and see them, but Idasn’t, because the nigger might get away, and then I’d be to blame;and yet never a skiff come close enough for me to hail. So there I hadto stick plumb until daylight this morning; and I never see a niggerthat was a better nuss or faithfuler, and yet he was risking hisfreedom to do it, and was all tired out, too, and I see plain enoughhe’d been worked main hard lately. I liked the nigger for that; I tellyou, gentlemen, a nigger like that is worth a thousand dollars—andkind treatment, too. I had everything I needed, and the boy was doingas well there as he would ’a’ done at home—better, maybe, because itwas so quiet; but there I _was_, with both of ’m on my hands, andthere I had to stick till about dawn this morning; then some men in askiff come by, and as good luck would have it the nigger was settingby the pallet with his head propped on his knees sound asleep; so Imotioned them in quiet, and they slipped up on him and grabbed him andtied him before he knowed what he was about, and we never had notrouble. And the boy being in a kind of a flighty sleep, too, wemuffled the oars and hitched the raft on, and towed her over very niceand quiet, and the nigger never made the least row nor said a wordfrom the start. He ain’t no bad nigger, gentlemen; that’s what I thinkabout him.”Somebody says:“Well, it sounds very good, doctor, I’m obleeged to say.”Then the others softened up a little, too, and I was mighty thankfulto that old doctor for doing Jim that good turn; and I was glad it wasaccording to my judgment of him, too; because I thought he had a goodheart in him and was a good man the first time I see him. Then theyall agreed that Jim had acted very well, and was deserving to havesome notice took of it, and reward. So every one of them promised,right out and hearty, that they wouldn’t cuss him no more.Then they come out and locked him up. I hoped they was going to say hecould have one or two of the chains took off, because they was rottenheavy, or could have meat and greens with his bread and water; butthey didn’t think of it, and I reckoned it warn’t best for me to mixin, but I judged I’d get the doctor’s yarn to Aunt Sally somehow orother as soon as I’d got through the breakers that was laying justahead of me—explanations, I mean, of how I forgot to mention aboutSid being shot when I was telling how him and me put in that drattednight paddling around hunting the runaway nigger.But I had plenty time. Aunt Sally she stuck to the sick-room all dayand all night, and every time I see Uncle Silas mooning around Idodged him.Next morning I heard Tom was a good deal better, and they said AuntSally was gone to get a nap. So I slips to the sick-room, and if Ifound him awake I reckoned we could put up a yarn for the family thatwould wash. But he was sleeping, and sleeping very peaceful, too; andpale, not fire-faced the way he was when he come. So I set down andlaid for him to wake. In about half an hour Aunt Sally comes glidingin, and there I was, up a stump again! She motioned me to be still,and set down by me, and begun to whisper, and said we could all bejoyful now, because all the symptoms was first-rate, and he’d beensleeping like that for ever so long, and looking better and peacefulerall the time, and ten to one he’d wake up in his right mind.So we set there watching, and by and by he stirs a bit, and opened hiseyes very natural, and takes a look, and says:“Hello!—why, I’m at _home!_ How’s that? Where’s the raft?”“It’s all right,” I says.“And _Jim?_”“The same,” I says, but couldn’t say it pretty brash. But he nevernoticed, but says:“Good! Splendid! _Now_ we’re all right and safe! Did you tell Aunty?”I was going to say yes; but she chipped in and says:“About what, Sid?”“Why, about the way the whole thing was done.”“What whole thing?”“Why, _the_ whole thing. There ain’t but one; how we set the runawaynigger free—me and Tom.”“Good land! Set the run—What _is_ the child talking about! Dear,dear, out of his head again!”“_No_, I ain’t out of my HEAD; I know all what I’m talking about. We_did_ set him free—me and Tom. We laid out to do it, and we _done_it. And we done it elegant, too.” He’d got a start, and she neverchecked him up, just set and stared and stared, and let him clipalong, and I see it warn’t no use for _me_ to put in. “Why, Aunty, itcost us a power of work—weeks of it—hours and hours, every night,whilst you was all asleep. And we had to steal candles, and the sheet,and the shirt, and your dress, and spoons, and tin plates, andcase-knives, and the warming-pan, and the grindstone, and flour, andjust no end of things, and you can’t think what work it was to makethe saws, and pens, and inscriptions, and one thing or another, andyou can’t think _half_ the fun it was. And we had to make up thepictures of coffins and things, and nonnamous letters from therobbers, and get up and down the lightning-rod, and dig the hole intothe cabin, and make the rope ladder and send it in cooked up in a pie,and send in spoons and things to work with in your apron pocket—”“Mercy sakes!”“—and load up the cabin with rats and snakes and so on, for companyfor Jim; and then you kept Tom here so long with the butter in his hatthat you come near spiling the whole business, because the men comebefore we was out of the cabin, and we had to rush, and they heard usand let drive at us, and I got my share, and we dodged out of the pathand let them go by, and when the dogs come they warn’t interested inus, but went for the most noise, and we got our canoe, and made forthe raft, and was all safe, and Jim was a free man, and we done it allby ourselves, and _wasn’t_ it bully, Aunty!”“Well, I never heard the likes of it in all my born days! So it was_you_, you little rapscallions, that’s been making all this trouble,and turned everybody’s wits clean inside out and scared us all most todeath. I’ve as good a notion as ever I had in my life to take it outo’ you this very minute. To think, here I’ve been, night after night,a—_you_ just get well once, you young scamp, and I lay I’ll tan theOld Harry out o’ both o’ ye!”But Tom, he _was_ so proud and joyful, he just _couldn’t_ hold in, andhis tongue just _went_ it—she a-chipping in, and spitting fire allalong, and both of them going it at once, like a cat convention; andshe says:“_Well_, you get all the enjoyment you can out of it _now_, for mind Itell you if I catch you meddling with him again—”“Meddling with _who?_” Tom says, dropping his smile and lookingsurprised.“With _who?_ Why, the runaway nigger, of course. Who’d you reckon?”Tom looks at me very grave, and says:“Tom, didn’t you just tell me he was all right? Hasn’t he got away?”“_Him?_” says Aunt Sally; “the runaway nigger? ’Deed he hasn’t.They’ve got him back, safe and sound, and he’s in that cabin again, onbread and water, and loaded down with chains, till he’s claimed orsold!”Tom rose square up in bed, with his eye hot, and his nostrils openingand shutting like gills, and sings out to me:“They hain’t no _right_ to shut him up! _Shove!_—and don’t you lose aminute. Turn him loose! he ain’t no slave; he’s as free as any creturthat walks this earth!”“What _does_ the child mean?”“I mean every word I _say_, Aunt Sally, and if somebody don’t go,_I’ll_ go. I’ve knowed him all his life, and so has Tom, there. OldMiss Watson died two months ago, and she was ashamed she ever wasgoing to sell him down the river, and _said_ so; and she set him freein her will.”“Then what on earth did _you_ want to set him free for, seeing he wasalready free?”“Well, that _is_ a question, I must say; and _just_ like women! Why, Iwanted the _adventure_ of it; and I’d ’a’ waded neck-deep in bloodto—goodness alive, _Aunt Polly!_”If she warn’t standing right there, just inside the door, looking assweet and contented as an angel half full of pie, I wish I may never!Aunt Sally jumped for her, and most hugged the head off of her, andcried over her, and I found a good enough place for me under the bed,for it was getting pretty sultry for _us_, seemed to me. And I peepedout, and in a little while Tom’s Aunt Polly shook herself loose andstood there looking across at Tom over her spectacles—kind ofgrinding him into the earth, you know. And then she says:“Yes, you _better_ turn y’r head away—I would if I was you, Tom.”“Oh, deary me!” says Aunt Sally; “_is_ he changed so? Why, that ain’t_Tom_, it’s Sid; Tom’s—Tom’s—why, where is Tom? He was here a minuteago.”“You mean where’s Huck _Finn_—that’s what you mean! I reckon I hain’traised such a scamp as my Tom all these years not to know him when I_see_ him. That _would_ be a pretty howdy-do. Come out from under thatbed, Huck Finn.”So I done it. But not feeling brash.Aunt Sally she was one of the mixed-upest-looking persons I eversee—except one, and that was Uncle Silas, when he come in and theytold it all to him. It kind of made him drunk, as you may say, and hedidn’t know nothing at all the rest of the day, and preached aprayer-meeting sermon that night that gave him a rattling ruputation,because the oldest man in the world couldn’t ’a’ understood it. SoTom’s Aunt Polly, she told all about who I was, and what; and I had toup and tell how I was in such a tight place that when Mrs. Phelps tookme for Tom Sawyer—she chipped in and says, “Oh, go on and call meAunt Sally, I’m used to it now, and ’taint no need to change”—thatwhen Aunt Sally took me for Tom Sawyer I had to stand it—there warn’tno other way, and I knowed he wouldn’t mind, because it would be nutsfor him, being a mystery, and he’d make an adventure out of it, and beperfectly satisfied. And so it turned out, and he let on to be Sid,and made things as soft as he could for me.And his Aunt Polly she said Tom was right about old Miss Watsonsetting Jim free in her will; and so, sure enough, Tom Sawyer had goneand took all that trouble and bother to set a free nigger free! and Icouldn’t ever understand before, until that minute and that talk, howhe _could_ help a body set a nigger free with his bringing-up.Well, Aunt Polly she said that when Aunt Sally wrote to her that Tomand _Sid_ had come all right and safe, she says to herself:“Look at that, now! I might have expected it, letting him go off thatway without anybody to watch him. So now I got to go and trapse allthe way down the river, eleven hundred mile, and find out what thatcreetur’s up to _this_ time, as long as I couldn’t seem to get anyanswer out of you about it.”“Why, I never heard nothing from you,” says Aunt Sally.“Well, I wonder! Why, I wrote you twice to ask you what you could meanby Sid being here.”“Well, I never got ’em. Sis.”Aunt Polly she turns around slow and severe, and says:“You, Tom!”“Well—_what?_” he says, kind of pettish.“Don’t you what _me_, you impudent thing—hand out them letters.”“What letters?”“_Them_ letters. I be bound, if I have to take a-holt of you I’ll—”“They’re in the trunk. There, now. And they’re just the same as theywas when I got them out of the office. I hain’t looked into them, Ihain’t touched them. But I knowed they’d make trouble, and I thoughtif you warn’t in no hurry, I’d—”“Well, you _do_ need skinning, there ain’t no mistake about it. And Iwrote another one to tell you I was coming; and I s’pose he—”“No, it come yesterday; I hain’t read it yet, but _it’s_ all right,I’ve got that one.”I wanted to offer to bet two dollars she hadn’t, but I reckoned maybeit was just as safe to not to. So I never said nothing.CHAPTER THE LASTThe first time I catched Tom private I asked him what was his idea,time of the evasion?—what it was he’d planned to do if the evasionworked all right and he managed to set a nigger free that was alreadyfree before? And he said, what he had planned in his head from thestart, if we got Jim out all safe, was for us to run him down theriver on the raft, and have adventures plumb to the mouth of theriver, and then tell him about his being free, and take him back uphome on a steamboat, in style, and pay him for his lost time, andwrite word ahead and get out all the niggers around, and have themwaltz him into town with a torchlight procession and a brass-band, andthen he would be a hero, and so would we. But I reckoned it was aboutas well the way it was.We had Jim out of the chains in no time, and when Aunt Polly and UncleSilas and Aunt Sally found out how good he helped the doctor nurseTom, they made a heap of fuss over him, and fixed him up prime, andgive him all he wanted to eat, and a good time, and nothing to do. Andwe had him up to the sick-room, and had a high talk; and Tom give Jimforty dollars for being prisoner for us so patient, and doing it up sogood, and Jim was pleased most to death, and busted out, and says:“_Dah_, now, Huck, what I tell you?—what I tell you up dah on JacksonIslan’? I _tole_ you I got a hairy breas’, en what’s de sign un it; en I_tole_ you I ben rich wunst, en gwineter to be rich _ag’in;_ en it’scome true; en heah she _is! Dah_, now! doan’ talk to _me_—signs is_signs_, mine I tell you; en I knowed jis’ ’s well ’at I ’uz gwineterbe rich ag’in as I’s a-stannin’ heah dis minute!”And then Tom he talked along and talked along, and says, le’s allthree slide out of here one of these nights and get an outfit, and gofor howling adventures amongst the Injuns, over in the territory, fora couple of weeks or two; and I says, all right, that suits me, but Iain’t got no money for to buy the outfit, and I reckon I couldn’t getnone from home, because it’s likely pap’s been back before now, andgot it all away from Judge Thatcher and drunk it up.“No, he hain’t,” Tom says; “it’s all there yet—six thousand dollarsand more; and your pap hain’t ever been back since. Hadn’t when I comeaway, anyhow.”Jim says, kind of solemn:“He ain’t a-comin’ back no mo’, Huck.”I says:“Why, Jim?”“Nemmine why, Huck—but he ain’t comin’ back no mo’.”But I kept at him; so at last he says:“Doan’ you ’member de house dat was float’n down de river, en dey wuza man in dah, kivered up, en I went in en unkivered him and didn’ letyou come in? Well, den, you kin git yo’ money when you wants it, kasedat wuz him.”Tom’s most well now, and got his bullet around his neck on awatch-guard for a watch, and is always seeing what time it is, and sothere ain’t nothing more to write about, and I am rotten glad of it,because if I’d ’a’ knowed what a trouble it was to make a book Iwouldn’t ’a’ tackled it, and ain’t a-going to no more. But I reckon Igot to light out for the territory ahead of the rest, because AuntSally she’s going to adopt me and sivilize me, and I can’t stand it. Ibeen there before.THE END*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ADVENTURES OF HUCKLEBERRY FINN ******** This file should be named 32325-0.txt or 32325-0.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:    https://www.gutenberg.org/3/2/3/2/32325/Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions willbe renamed.Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyrightlaw means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in theUnited States without permission and without paying copyrightroyalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use partof this license, apply to copying and distributing ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tmconcept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by followingthe terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for useof the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything forcopies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is veryeasy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creationof derivative works, reports, performances and research. ProjectGutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you maydo practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protectedby U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademarklicense, especially commercial redistribution.START: FULL LICENSETHE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “ProjectGutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the FullProject Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online atwww.gutenberg.org/license.Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return ordestroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in yourpossession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to aProject Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be boundby the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from theperson or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph1.E.8.1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement. Seeparagraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of thisagreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“theFoundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collectionof Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individualworks in the collection are in the public domain in the UnitedStates. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in theUnited States and you are located in the United States, we do notclaim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long asall references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hopethat you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promotingfree access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tmworks in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping theProject Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easilycomply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in thesame format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License whenyou share it without charge with others.1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries arein a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of thisagreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or anyother Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes norepresentations concerning the copyright status of any work in anycountry other than the United States.1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or otherimmediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appearprominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any workon which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which thephrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,performed, viewed, copied or distributed:  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where  you are located before using this eBook.1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work isderived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does notcontain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of thecopyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone inthe United States without paying any fees or charges. If you areredistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “ProjectGutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must complyeither with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 orobtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tmtrademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and anyadditional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional termswill be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all worksposted with the permission of the copyright holder found at thebeginning of this work.1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, includingany word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide accessto or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a formatother than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the officialversion posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expenseto the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a meansof obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “PlainVanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include thefull Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic worksprovided that:* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg  Literary Archive Foundation.”* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies  you in writing (or by email) within 30 days of receipt that s/he  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm  works.* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of  receipt of the work.* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms thanare set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writingfrom the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager ofthe Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as setforth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadworks not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the ProjectGutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, maycontain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurateor corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or otherintellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk orother medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage orcannot be read by your equipment.1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Rightof Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from. If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the mediumwith your written explanation. The person or entity that provided youwith the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy inlieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the personor entity providing it to you may choose to give you a secondopportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. Ifthe second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writingwithout further opportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you—‘AS-IS’, WITH NOOTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOTLIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types ofdamages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreementviolates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, theagreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer orlimitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity orunenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void theremaining provisions.1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works inaccordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with theproduction, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any ofthe following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of thisor any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, oradditions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) anyDefect you cause.Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety ofcomputers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. Itexists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donationsfrom people in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm’sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and futuregenerations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, seeSections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page atwww.gutenberg.orgSection 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive FoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted byU.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and upto date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s websiteand official page at www.gutenberg.org/contactSection 4. Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive withoutwidespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SENDDONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particularstate visit www.gutenberg.org/donateWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donationmethods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. Todonate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donateSection 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic worksProfessor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the ProjectGutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could befreely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced anddistributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network ofvolunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright inthe U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do notnecessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paperedition.Most people start at our website which has the main PG searchfacility: www.gutenberg.orgThis website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
